We know not where you left him all alive;
Before I enter'd here, I call'd; and thought
But have I not cause to weep?
Smarting in lingering pickle.
off. Je quand sur le possession de France, et quand
What incidency thou dost guess of harm
The rich advantage of good exercise?
Then bid adieu to me, and say the tears
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
Thou art a strange fellow: a tailor make a man?
Without our ears: thou art not what thou seem'st.
How could he see to do them? having made one,
See how belief may suffer by foul show!
Welcome hither:
For things that others do; and, when we fall,
Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely.
Fond man, remember that thou hast a wife;
To dispossess that child which is not his?
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
What's done i' the Capitol; who's like to rise,
My disobedience 'gainst the king my father
In a great pool a swan's nest: prithee, think
We must needs dine together. Sir, your jewel
And mine to boot, be darted on thee! Thou,
And must be made a subject to a duke?
Nor do I thee: though I did wish him dead,
I never knew him otherwise.
Let fall thy lance: despair, and die!
The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows:
What stuff is this! how say you?
Alas, I then have chid away my friend!
Host, will you go?
With so fun soul, but some defect in her
This man hath my consent to marry her.
Had he done so to great and growing men,
So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal,
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
A thousand oaths, an ocean of his tears
for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year.
Thou art thence banish'd, we would muster all
Justice, O royal duke! Vail your regard
From whom we do exist, and cease to be;
How deep?
Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practise had
And will to-morrow midnight solemnly
May I be bold to ask at what that contains,
Fiddler, forbear; you grow too forward, sir:
than I do with her, I thank heaven.
Stop, stop! No help?
they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in
Or with some dram conjured to this effect,
I have a woman's longing.
To praise my noble act; I hear him mock
Felt so much cold as over shoes in snow?
Unlike all others, chaffless. Pray, your pardon.
Storm still
O my lord, my lord,
have so much experience for my pains, and so, with
You must not enter.
This ignorant present, and I feel now
Calchas, I think. Where's your daughter?
What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian,
Marry, the Lord protect him, for he's a good man!
For it is done, my lord.
And with your speediest bring us what she says,
Be touch'd at very heart.
That, if heaven slumber while their creatures want,
And would have kept so long as breath did last!
Unlawfully made drunk with innocents' blood!
Ten thousand bold Scots, two and twenty knights,
And that letter hath she delivered, and there an end.
To take a paper up that I let fall.
My fool usurps my body.
Of good Polixenes; and my ground to do't
Tell us, old man, how shall we be employ'd?
We should be wood and were not made to woo.
At an unusual hour?
Of soft petitions, pity and remorse,
Mine ears, that heard her flattery; nor my heart,
And honourable carriage,
God save the mark!--here on his manly breast:
At Herod's bloody-hunting slaughtermen.
Re-enter PANDARUS with CRESSIDA
The emperor's court is like the house of Fame,
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS,  PISANIO, Soldiers, Attendants, and Roman Captives.  The Captains present POSTHUMUS LEONATUS to  CYMBELINE, who delivers him over to a Gaoler: then exeunt omnes
As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard!
Working so grossly in a natural cause,
Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us
O Fate! take not away thy heavy hand.
And though you call my course unnatural,
If that be all, masters, I hear no harm.
I know by that he's dead; and, by my soul,
What says Achilles? would he aught with us?
Break off the parley; for scarce I can refrain
But rather drowzed and hung their eyelids down,
With like advantage on the other side;
By such poor passion as the maid that milks
Write down thy mind, bewray thy meaning so,
the fellow dares not deceive me.
Stealing and giving odour! Enough; no more:
Exit CROMWELL
I pray you, hear her speak:
Under your promised pardon. The subjects' grief
What should this mean?
married of him than of another: for he is not like
Not that we love words better, as you do.
Weak shoulders, overborne with burthening grief,
For him that brought it: wretched though I seem,
rouse the night-owl in a catch that will draw three
Falsely to take away a life true made
thought fit, through all Athens, to play in our
I will cap that proverb with 'There is flattery in friendship.'
Will not have earth to know.
O, patience!
Of more strong link asunder than can ever
Go, leave me.
Farewell.
And make it halt behind her.
Whether I have been to blame or no, I know not:
From good descending?
Out of sight and raise this present head;
Fears make devils of cherubims; they never see truly.
In deep designs and matters of great moment,
To you a charge and trouble: to save both,
presently, and swoon for what's to come upon thee.
Can justly boast of. What's your lordship's pleasure?
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
Thy news Boyet?
And Ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack.
All things is ready. How near is our master?
Neither.
time and worms have eaten them, but not for love.
that thou't scarce worth.
The head of a bodkin.
What is here?
Comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs,
For we do fear the law? What company
Putting up the letter
Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price.
Plutus himself,
And pray that I may repossess the crown.
Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
Content. What is the wager?
Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did,
Ay, my good lord.
Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed.
Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.
freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end his miseries,
armed and gone ere ye came to Ilium? Helen was not
And all the ceremony of this compact
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
the sea was my sister drowned.
By duty ruminated.
Of your mere own: all these are portable,
And send for money for 'em.
beholding. Advise the duke, where you are going, to
Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living
O mistress, villany hath made mocks with love,
She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;
Sweet scrolls to fly about the streets of Rome!
their hands; let thy blood and spirit embrace them;
But where was this?
Signior Antipholus, I wonder much
She is too big, I hope, for me to compass.
So good as you have done.
That leads towards Mantua, whither they are fled:
Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
Meantime, have patience.
I'll set a bourn how far to be beloved.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
I have travell'd but two hours.
Exit BRUTUS
But, sirrah, mark, we use
great man and now applies it to a fool. Vent my
Of Antony's death.
Between our kingdoms and our royal selves,
good manners; if thou never sawest good manners,
I am a poor fall'n man, unworthy now
countries in her.
She had her breeding at my father's charge.
What, marry, may she?
Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills
For Michael Cassio,
Nay, by my faith, I think you are more beholding to
For you must know, we have with special soul
Thou weep'st, and speak'st.
That Photinus an eunuch and your maids
Enter DUKE OF YORK and DUCHESS OF YORK
Ay, sir; we did sleep day out of countenance, and
To-morrow, soldier,
Good, good, my lord; the secrets of nature
merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea, the
Exeunt
Then that you have sent innumerable substance--
Here is the man.
Enter BAPTISTA, KATHARINA, BIANCA, GREMIO, and HORTENSIO. LUCENTIO and TRANIO stand by
but in all things? wherein worthy, but in nothing?
Thanks to my lord.
And, fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee:
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
Hurt him! his body's a passable carcass, if he be
Whiles I go tell my lord the emperor
His daughter's trial! that he did but see
Which is the god of my idolatry,
And so his peers, upon this evidence,
Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to 't.
And pen her up.
livest, dear Kate, take a fellow of plain and
Retiring with HORATIO
Enter KING EDWARD IV and a Huntsman with him
But tell the traitor, in the high'st degree
Thus high at least, although your knee be low.
To pay the petty debt twenty times over:
nobody can match.
If it be husbanded with modesty.
What hast thou found?
And set me up in hope? But hush! no more.
the truth?
The like to you kind Varro.
At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,
them thyself or take away with thee the very
But there's a saying very old and true,
His insolence is more intolerable
But once before I spoke to the purpose: when?
Male varlet, you rogue! what's that?
Fathers that, like so many Alexanders,
Out of himself?
I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands,
They will bring all; whose spiritual counsel had,
His words were 'Farewell mistress;' nothing else.
And takes her farewell of the glorious sun!
Of force enough to bid his brother battle;
Because she will admit no kind of suit,
Then will I think upon a recompense.
Not I.
The Fourth Knight passes over
Enter PUCK
a coward, but he's the very devil incardinate.
Lest his infection, being of catching nature,
Thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate.
Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
In this which you accuse her.
For love is crowned with the prime
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
Double, double toil and trouble;
I knew him, and I know him; so I leave him
Your highness shall do well to grant her suit;
I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
To spoil the city and your royal court.
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
Painting is welcome.
I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
not Goliath with a weaver's beam; because I know
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
Good my liege,
less. What's next?
How now, fair shepherd!
Are you a god? would you create me new?
Foul fiend of France, and hag of all despite,
Or may I never--
If, or for nothing or a little, I
Hold, Rosaline, this favour thou shalt wear,
Let us address to tend on Hector's heels:
Go to the creating a whole tribe of fops,
Out of a casement.
Exit Bardolph
Noble Ventidius,
Make choice of which your highness will see first.
What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
Something browner than Judas's marry, his kisses are
To the felt absence now I feel a cause:
And here he comes.
Beyond the river we'll encamp ourselves,
age to show himself a young gallant! What an
Peace! for I will not have to do with you.
Our thunder from the south
Therefore commend me; let him not come there,
More penitence than done trespass: at the last,
man in Athens.
swore he would pay him again when he was able: I
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
Which is both healthful and good husbandry:
England, for itself.
The like allayment could I give my grief.
All's well that ends well; still the fine's the crown;
Though war nor no known quarrel were in question,
Madam, we'll tell tales.
This is the man.
Saltiers, and they have a dance which the wenches
one puritan amongst them, and he sings psalms to
Moor is with child by you, Launcelot.
If I my lord, for my opinion bleed,
Words, vows, gifts, tears, and love's full sacrifice,
With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads,
I think I can discover him, if you please,
Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain,
Because he hath a half-face, like my father.
This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid;
have discredited your travel.
I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak;
Equal in lustre, were now best, now worst,
He had need mean better than his outward show
restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been
they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of
est meilleur que l'Anglois lequel je parle.
And takes him by the beard; kisses the gashes
Call all his noble captains to my lord.
My Lord, I have consider'd in my mind
So, now they come:
We rest your hermits.
Yet I can make my audit up, that all
Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus.
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
My child is yet a stranger in the world;
She hath the stones upon her, and the ducats.'
And nothing marted with him. If your lass
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
Blind fear, that seeing reason leads, finds safer
Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
Exit
My dearest wife was like this maid, and such a one
By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks;
More upon humour than advised respect.
Exit
Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
Aside
He would unhorse the lustiest challenger.
'Tis time must do. Beseech your majesty,
Thou art a grave and noble counsellor,
As till that time I shall not pity thee.
No more, you petty spirits of region low,
How! know you where you are?
Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
Enter English Herald, with trumpet
As I will fashion it, shall happily meet,
But it raises the greater war between him and
Exeunt
It should not be, by the persuasion of his new feasting.
You break into some merry passion
I have in quick determination
As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs,
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
That is well known; and, as I think, one father:
Why dost ask that? I have forgot all men;
Performers of this heinous, bloody deed?
some care.
The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so?
Do, most dear queen.
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
buff jerkin?
But, by great Mars, the captain of us all,
Who cannot want the thought how monstrous
And hath so humbled me, as, I confess,
I will go wash;
If you do love me, you will find me out.
To meet all perils very constantly.
I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:
Do that good mischief which may make this island
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
For the love o' God, peace!
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
Shall see us rising in our throne, the east,
And general honour.
Exempt from envy, but not from disdain,
You are such a woman! one knows not at what ward you
The pregnant instrument of wrath
Muffle your false love with some show of blindness:
Hark! Hector's trumpet.
For such kindness must relieve me,
prisoner the very debt of your calling. I have
I am that merry wanderer of the night.
Enter OTHELLO, LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, EMILIA and Attendants
Spur your proud horses hard, and ride in blood;
In Belmont is a lady richly left;
We cannot but obey
You are rapt, sir, in some work, some dedication
O, whither?
And did deserve his change: for what I have conquer'd,
Why, what is Tybalt?
Your own desert!
We were enforced, for safety sake, to fly
Thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him.
I cannot tarry: I knew a wench married in an
She that herself will sliver and disbranch
According to the fair play of the world,
Alarum. Excursions. Enter PRINCE HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, and EARL OF WESTMORELAND
To the strict deputy; bid herself assay him:
Exit
It may be so: but if he say it is so, he is, in
These be the Christian husbands. I have a daughter;
Durst make too bold a herald of my tongue
Hast not a tongue? is she not here?
to be fat be to be hated, then Pharaoh's lean kine
Stay, good my lords,
That nature, which contemns its origin,
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
have not seen him this two days.
bestraught: here's--
For the most worthiest fit! Give me your pardon.
Below their cobbled shoes. They say there's
Take heed, ere summer comes or cuckoo-birds do sing.
Will the time serve to tell? I do not think.
To seek you at your house. Well, I will hie,
Let them not speak a word; the guilt is plain;
And arms her with the boldness of a wife
Took her own way. The manner of their deaths?
The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt;
and my cold blood, I am of your humour for that: I
I love thee.
Silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
But, sure, he is stark mad.
You can endure the livery of a nun,
isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello!
He attendeth here hard by,
Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your
O God, counterfeit! There was never counterfeit of
and will she love him still for prating? let not
A falcon, towering in her pride of place,
Her father and her country and her friends,
To fair Marina; but in no wise
But, soft! my door is lock'd. Go bid them let us in.
To satisfy your highness and the entreaties
Where ne'er from France arrived more happy men.
Enter two Sailors
One raised in blood, and one in blood establish'd;
There is one tree, the phoenix' throne, one phoenix
Look back, defend thee, here are enemies.
Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us
And in the sacred Pantheon her espouse:
Exeunt
Being unprevented, to your timeless grave.
Or else the lady's mad; yet, if 'twere so,
Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
Can stead the quest. At last from Tyre,
Topple down headlong.
Thy mistress is o' the brothel! Son of sixteen,
He makes for England, there to claim the crown.
'Tis better that the enemy seek us:
Hath an argosy cast away, coming from Tripolis.
And she shall be my love, or else my queen.--
My lungs began to crow like chanticleer,
But I know none, and therefore am no beast.
Captain Gower: the rascally, scald, beggarly,
See, how they kiss and court! Signior Lucentio,
Bonos dies, Sir Toby: for, as the old hermit of
Cry 'holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets
O, 'tis foul in her.
Exit
Come, come, no longer will I be a fool,
Come, now a roundel and a fairy song;
How comes it, Michael, you are thus forgot?
Upon my party, I'ld revolt to make
Between these woolly breeders in the act,
man for coughing in the street, because he hath
To winter-ground thy corse.
with these tidings.
You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?
Its tenderness, and make itself a pastime
SCENE VII. London. Smithfield.
Then is the world one.
Keep you your word, O duke, to give your daughter;
widow of Vitravio; Signior Placentio and his lovely
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
to the doors: watch to-night, pray to-morrow.
many irreconciled iniquities, you may call the
If you have any pity, grace, or manners,
Beseech your patience. Peace,
I pray you, bear with me; I cannot go no further.
Enter SALARINO and SALANIO
remember him now; a bawd, a cutpurse.
Ay, Hal; 'tis hot, 'tis hot; there's that will sack a city.
And plodded like a man for working-days,
Either to be restored to my blood,
You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.
Yet is it true, sir.
Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face,
And have you?
Make your proof.
As I perceive she does: there's something in't
O'er, point by point, for yet he seems to doubt,
And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
O, do not swear!
We came aboard.
despair not.
Ay, and truly, you were best.
Give me a staff of honour for mine age,
Flaminius; you are very respectively welcome, sir.
And feed his humour kindly as we may,
it on a giant. Bring up the brown bills. O, well
Egregious ransom.
You should then have accosted her; and with some
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
Cure her of that.
exhibition; but for the whole world,--why, who would
Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
'Tis pity bounty had not eyes behind,
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
From east to occident, cry out for service,
If then true lovers have been ever cross'd,
Pass our accept and peremptory answer.
Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, behind
[Aside]  She shines not upon fools, lest the
You see, her eyes are open.
protector,
Made me acquainted with a weighty cause
What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?
Did verily bear blood?
'Tis in my cloak-bag--doublet, hat, hose, all
May be she doth but counterfeit.
Knight of the Burning Lamp.
Thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe.
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
I do bequeath my faithful services
So quick bright things come to confusion.
True, I talk of dreams,
Created, for his rare success in arms,
I will, my lord, so please his majesty.
Your dinner, and the generous islanders
Well, I will go;
Enter a Messenger, with two heads and a hand
Which we will second. When he lies along,
What do you prate of service?
Itself for being there?
I train'd thy brethren to that guileful hole
I see them not with my old eyes: what are they?
Seeing this goodly vessel ride before us,
Well, no more.
So I hear.
Deep clerks she dumbs; and with her needle composes
How we may steal from hence, and for the gap
[Aside]  I see she's like to have neither cap nor gown.
O, soft, air! hold you still:
Should I now meet my father,
And will he not come again?
Fool, fool, fool, I say!
And buckle in a waist most fathomless
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood:
When I do weep, they humbly at my feet
That day that made my sister thirteen years.
Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus,
Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know
Touching the jointure that your king must make,
An't please
Now sleep y-slaked hath the rout;
Provided that my banishment repeal'd
youth of the count's was today with thy lady, she is
nobody: is there any harm in 'the heavier for a
Our archers shall be placed in the midst
Madam, you have done me wrong,
All follow this, and come to dust.
Rough deeds of rage and stern impatience;
And I shall find you empty of that fault,
If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
There will little learning die then, that day thou
But I remember, when the fight was done,
The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
To the warm sun!
It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
For judgment only doth belong to thee.
You are most bound to the king,
Varro's Servant	I could render one.
Long live so, and so die.
Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf,
Would you praise Caesar, say 'Caesar:' go no further.
And to conclude, we have 'greed so well together,
He will hear none: he hath evermore had the liberty
I have one friend alive; thou wouldst disprove me.
Exit an Attendant
Whereto the climber-upward turns his face;
Enter HOTSPUR, solus, reading a letter
How now, sir! What's your name? and what's the matter?
How far your eyes may pierce I can not tell:
That, after this strange starting from your orbs,
And triumphs over chance in honour's bed.
Make sacred even his stirrup, and through him
I' the filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell,
beggar, they will lazy out ten to see a dead
And shamefully by you my hopes are butcher'd.
Thou art resolved?
are yours; so is your diamond too: if I come off,
And fortune led you well: you have the captives
We may not think the justness of each act
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw't.
Myself no joy in nought but that thou livest.
thou a bear, thou wouldst be killed by the horse:
Transformed Timon to our city's love
Draws us a profit from all things we see;
O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier,
Which I did make him swear to keep for ever.
Re-enter MALVOLIO
to that nourishment which is called supper: so much
Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls,
for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.
And shortly mean to touch our northern shore:
No more shall be the neighbour to my counsel:
Was still inscribed; in which you brought the king
Of what validity and pitch soe'er,
us.
How doth the lady?
SCENE IV. A Hall in York Place.
Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
complete man.
To order peace between them; and omit
No, neither.
I'll not deny him any thing I have,
not make her husband a cuckold to make him a
Shall best instruct you, measure me; and so
Why then to-night
Saw you the king to-day, my Lord of Derby?
That, in the course of justice, none of us
Thou this to hazard needs must intimate
What, of Venice?
It is not fit your lordship should undertake every
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword:
Infect thy sap and live on thy confusion.
Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd
O good Sir Toby, hold! here come the officers.
Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot?
And driven into despair an enemy's hope,
He came alive to land.
I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart:
constantly thou hast stuck to the bare fortune of
The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold:
company! fair desires, in all fair measure,
manifest. For my brother, I think he holds you
My maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brentford, has a
Are singled forth to try experiments:
You may behold confusion of your foes.
If heaven will take the present at our hands.
Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
And charity chased hence by rancour's hand;
On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
Both day and night did we keep company.
For these domestic and particular broils
base wench. If drawing my sword against the humour
For do we must what force will have us do.
I'll turn my part thereof into thy throat.
To whom I sued for my dear son's life,
Fie, fie, my brother!
Let it be so: the first inter'gatory
Take him over the costard with the hilts of thy
Exeunt
Foster'd, illumined, cherish'd, kept alive.
You must prepare your bosom for his knife.
Most dear'st! my collop! Can thy dam?--may't be?--
in my tent.
The number of the king exceedeth ours:
In deep of night to walk by this Herne's oak:
For such proceeding I am charged withal,
For I do fear eyes over--to shipboard
Would I were with him! He would always say--
Who knows if one of her women, being corrupted,
And tread upon his neck.
Was that the king, that spurred his horse so hard
A devil, a born devil, on whose nature
If good King Pericles be.
daring the reports of my tongue.
A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
going, forsooth: the business is for Helen to come hither.
And made the most notorious geck and gull
Octavia to his wife; whose beauty claims
'Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
impiety has made a feast of thee.
William, how many numbers is in nouns?
Exit
Gold cannot come amiss, were she a devil.
you can separate yourself and your misdemeanors, you
How many women saw this child of his?
Exeunt
That my discovery be not aimed at;
That live in her; when liver, brain and heart,
Therefore make present satisfaction,
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
Good hearts, devise something: any extremity rather
Must bear the same proportion; and not ever
ANTIPHOLUS
and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows.
Thou bastard of my grandfather!
I did her wrong--
With her her niece, the Lady Blanch of Spain;
I beseech you heartily, some of you go home with me
But let desert in pure election shine,
My tongue cleave to my roof within my mouth
Why, then, we are awake: let's follow him
Let's leave this town; for they are hare-brain'd slaves,
Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here.
Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,
Thou dost not wish more help from England, coz?
A sure and safe one, though thy master miss'd it.
DON
'Enough, enough,' and die. That thing you speak of,
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
By vain though apt affection.
The first I warrant thee, if dreams prove true.
Therefore I have entreated him along
Not sickness should detain me.
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
And hale him up and down, all swearing, if
Goes upright with his carriage. How's the day?
Stay, murderous villains! will you kill your brother?
Soon kindled and soon burnt; carded his state,
O, fie, fie, fie!
You be convey'd to the Tower a prisoner;
Into the staggers and the careless lapse
is deceived, or Sir John.
I love the sport well but I shall as soon quarrel at
Enter KENT and a Gentleman
Fellow, give place; here is no longer stay.
Yes, gracious madam.
Whilst summer lasts and I live here, Fidele,
Well pray you, father.
Of such enchanting presence and discourse,
To take from you the jewel you hold so dear.
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
And instantly unlock my fortunes here.
lordship anon.
When all aloud the wind doth blow
I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two
It is his highness' pleasure that the queen
Will shortly fill the reasonable shore
Madam, a noble gentleman of Rome,
look you, is both alike. There is a river in
In this point charge him home, that he affects
That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.
But do not use it oft, let me entreat you.
You must report to the Volscian lords, how plainly
For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
bones, their bones!
Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
Let him not die. My brother had but justice,
Even she; and is she not a heavenly saint?
idiot, patch!
Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth
Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?
God bless thee; and put meekness in thy mind,
shall never requite him.
I should think so: he hath sent me an earnest
By this brave duke came early to his grave:
into the ford; I have my belly full of ford.
The most opportune place, the strong'st suggestion.
said he then?
I pray you, tell me how my good friend doth.
As bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair:
Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,
devil? When the blood is made dull with the act of
tapsters: they will draw you, Master Froth, and you
SCENE IV. A room in DOCTOR CAIUS' house.
And choice, being mutual act of all our souls,
Our purses shall be proud, our garments poor;
If you think fit, or that it may be done,
And he knew my deceased father well.
This jarring discord of nobility,
We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.
Of such a merry, nimble, stirring spirit,
Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello,
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
eat like wolves and fight like devils.
Destroy'd themselves, and lost the realm of France!
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
Who shall hinder me?
Exit
How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans
settled only in rogue: some call him Autolycus.
I do dismiss you to your several countries.
He sent command to the lord mayor straight
word; but see how I lay the dust with my tears.
how does thine ague?
Ere I ope his letter,
Out of your proof you speak: we, poor unfledged,
Take and give back affairs and their dispatch
want. Here comes Sir Oliver.
cuffs in the question.
Which is he that killed the deer?
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
No visor does become black villany
It is writ to Jaquenetta.
Which on thy royal party granted once,
Thyself I call it, being strange to me,
Of commendations sent from Valentine,
One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church
SCENE II. The same. Garden of JULIA's house.
Exit POLONIUS
Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow.
And wanting breath to speak help me with tears.
Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor
Consideration, like an angel, came
I'll carry it to the pile.
Dare ye come forth and meet us in the field?
Mine eye hath well examined his parts
gave me nothing for't. Can you make no use of
Master Barnardine!
You know the cause, air, of my standing here.
royalty of her father: draw, you rogue, or I'll so
Do come with words as medicinal as true,
Return the precedent to these lords again;
Do you not know me, father?
But you, my brace of lords, were I so minded,
I know my hour is come.
Why dost thou seek me out?
That ever-valiant and approved Scot,
All the whole army stood agazed on him:
O tiger's heart wrapt in a woman's hide!
'A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus
And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius!
mistress of him: sanctifies himself with's hand and
thus strong,
And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame,
But creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
What dost thou profess? what wouldst thou with us?
When I was crown'd I was but nine months old.
fie!
What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?
On pain of death, no person be so bold
First, hear me speak.
Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away
Leave your prabbles, 'oman. What is the focative
How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
Monmouth: it is called Wye at Monmouth; but it is
Upon my part shall be unviolable.
A worthy officer i' the war; but insolent,
Yes, my lord.
Four hundred twenty-six; and Charles the Great
Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men;
Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made
The valiant heart is not whipt out of his trade.
No, page: it is an epilogue or discourse, to make plain
From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame,
That gives me this bold show of courtesy.
His humble ambition, proud humility,
Broke the possession of a royal bed
Are at my service, like enforced smiles;
Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
Thy wife hath dream'd; thy mother hath had visions;
Who cannot err, he did it. Now this follows,--
A man, young lady! lady, such a man
care for her frowning; now thou art an O without a
That I have passed.
Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand,
Is there no manners left among maids? will they
Gelding the opposed continent as much
You look upon that sleeve; behold it well.
If your more ponderous and settled project
Re-enter LAFEU
To be another's fool. I would be gone:
Think not that Henry shall be so deposed.
Untie the spell.
My twelve months are expired, and Tyrus stands
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie.
Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven?
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
He and his forces enter the city
Wherefore my father should revengers want,
His mother was a votaress of my order:
Some comfort, nurse.
Mars's hot minion is returned again;
What you commanded me, but by her woman
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Excellent! why, this is the best fooling, when all
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
He would not, but by gift of my chaste body
Come, sister,--cousin, I would say--pray, pardon me.
As a long-parted mother with her child
Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine,
Sir, I shall study deserving.
Served well for Rome,--
that made the wings she flew withal.
RICHARD
From Athens is her house remote seven leagues;
Which, since they are of you, and odious,
young earl. Beware of them, Diana; their promises,
When I would pray and think, I think and pray
Here, here comes master Signior Leonato, and the
With ears that sweep away the morning dew;
Stood heir to the first. Now, sir, be judge yourself,
What complexion is she of?
fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth
for some hour before you took me from the breach of
Whate'er occasion keeps him from us now.
Who struck this heat up after I was gone?
PROLOGUE
And leave the burthen of it all on thee.
Which you know cannot err: the love I bear him
Have I once lived to see two honest men?
enow before; e'en as many as could well live, one by
His name is Romeo, and a Montague;
And too impatiently stamp'd with your foot;
Hear you, sir;
Let me be blest to make this happy close;
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit:
How! Was it we? we loved him but, like beasts
the Jew and Antonio the merchant: we turned o'er
The rather will I spare my praises towards him:
I dare avouch it, sir: what, fifty followers?
By your power legatine, within this kingdom,
Thy life answer!
Play something like the murder of my father
That meat was made for mouths, that the gods sent not
Ay, ay; farewell.
For three months; well.
To AUSTRIA
I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak
the north star. I would not marry her, though she
Who cannot condemn rashness in cold blood?
I must go look my twigs: he shall be caught.
Yet doth he give us bold advertisement,
Came here in grace our solemnity.
O, ay; as summer flies are in the shambles,
Goes foremost in report through Italy.
O monstrous coward! what, to come behind folks?
All is the fear and nothing is the love;
In that and all your worthiest affairs.
I did, my lord.
And it shall privilege him from your hands
Marry, sir, the letter, very orderly; having nothing
Inclinable to honour and advance
And he's as tetchy to be woo'd to woo.
Such aid as I can spare you shall command;
Ere he by sickness had been visited:
Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
O, the more angel she,
Ay, and greater wonders than that.
Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain, all
What thou shouldst be: the occasion speaks thee, and
Like her! O Isis! 'tis impossible.
Jack Cade hath gotten London bridge:
Though enemy, lost aim, and could not?
Who starves the ears she feeds, and makes them hungry,
Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
to see Caesar and to rejoice in his triumph.
Then know that I have little wealth to lose:
sir, an ill-favoured thing, sir, but mine own; a poor
nine that I know.
If heaven had pleased to have given me longer life
order of law a furred gown to keep him warm; and
Enter DECIUS BRUTUS
If you did wear a beard upon your chin,
Your pleasure and my promise.
ready. By my troth, I am exceeding ill: heigh-ho!
Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
And thence retire me to my Milan, where
Unmuffling
directly and truly, I would think thee an honest
And bade him follow; so indeed he did.
Still in this fashion, colour, ornament,
As punishment for his most wicked life.
Thy deafening, dreadful thunders; gently quench
Whom you pretend to honour and adore,
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
A sun and moon, which kept their course,
And he's composed of harshness. I must remove
Dost overshine the gallant'st dames of Rome,
Though you are old enough to be my heir.
Sweet invocation of a child; most pretty and
And get you from our court.
say they be fled; Germans are honest men.
God dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady?
Most gracious majesty,--
Had I so good occasion to lie long
It's dry, sir.
That I did kill them.
Who 'scapes the lurking serpent's mortal sting?
She would to each one sip. You are retired,
Lord cardinal, the king's further pleasure is,
Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will.
[Within]  Francis!
But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,
Perchance she weeps because they kill'd her husband;
Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them
Welcome, brave captain and victorious lord!
A pillow for his head:
And when it's writ, for my sake read it over,
Than you are mad; which is enough, I'll warrant,
Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified
To our attempts. Am I not stay'd for, Cinna?
The interim, pray you, all confound.
Not I.
Drowns him, and takes his valour prisoner:
That have with two pernicious daughters join'd
I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as
I come with gracious offers from the king,
if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously
And then to have the humour of state; and after a
And so hath Clifton: I'll to Clifton straight.
Stand, ho!
Enter CLAUDIO
Gives me superfluous death.
Suppose him now at anchor. The city strived
In thee thy mother dies, our household's name,
In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
Enow to press a royal merchant down
To find out this abuse, whence 'tis derived.
After my flight. Now go we in content
Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
No tongue! all eyes! be silent.
Why, your dolphin is not lustier: 'fore me,
Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
do you know me?
appoint him a meeting; give him a show of comfort in
Her husband, sirrah!
Of stuff'd sufficiency: now from the oracle
Whose beauty did astonish the survey
His measure duly.
Hark ye, lords; ye see I have given her physic,
I think not of them:
The unstooping firmness of my upright soul:
To feast with me and see me at my tent.
What's that, I pray?
I came into the world with my legs forward:
Away, then! I am lock'd in one of them:
For he can do no more than Caesar's arm
Exit
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
To take a note of what I stand in need of,
Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, with the rabble
Ay, sir, and wherefore; for they say every why hath
Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers;
Here, take away this dish.
Shall, for thy love, kill a far truer love;
Tush, women have been captivate ere now.
Break ope the locks o' the senate and bring in
If it be well to live; but better 'twere
They talk aside
What is the news?
Mercy on me! I have a great dispositions to cry.
To stand against the deep dread-bolted thunder?
That in their kind they speak it: only sin
Drawing his sword
example of others. God keep your worship! I wish
ANTIPHOLUS
But Valentine, if he be ta'en, must die.
Re-enter LUCIUS
Which Caesar and his fortune bare at once.
I have, and most unwillingly, of late
Where men enforced do speak anything.
He lived from all attainder of suspect.
Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester;
Good my lord, forbear:
And that my Lord of Norfolk?
Sirrah, walk off.
Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters?
A pattern to all princes living with her,
Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon
Contrived by art and baleful sorcery.
Not many moons gone by.
As if some planet had unwitted men--
I muse my mother
Come, shall we go?
For though abundantly they lack discretion,
Who dead? speak, man.
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Make up the rest upon you!
And we'll strive to please you every day.
But yet hear this: mistake me not; no life,
And six or seven winters more respect
Exeunt Fairies. TITANIA sleeps
The wronged Duke of Milan, Prospero:
Shall e'er divorce my dignities.
Why, I pray you?
Where he for grace is kneel'd to.
We are resolved, my lord.
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
I'll speak to thee in silence.
Exit
tithing, and stock- punished, and imprisoned; who
wealth of Windsor Castle.
Say'st thou me so? What colour is this cloak of?
Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your
Why should I not now have the like success?
Upon their pillows:
From my lord to my lady.
With your fine fancies quaintly eche:
graves. Find out this villain, Edmund; it shall
At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there,
You shall hear. As good luck would have it, comes
As honour without breach of honour may
And be no turncoats: yet may your pains, six months,
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
[Aside]  How well this honest mirth becomes their labour!
Wish chastely and love dearly, that your Dian
SCENE VII. The French camp, near Agincourt:
Whilst I, by looking on the praise of him,
What's the newest grief?
MOTH retires
See how the giddy multitude do point,
To make it clear; but do confess I have
Well, I do commend her choice;
Captain Macmorris, I think, look you, under your
And cull'd these fiery spirits from the world,
Good sir, adieu.
Leave hollaing, man: here.
Fates, we will know your pleasures:
And therefore sit you down in gentleness
Freedom, hey-day! hey-day, freedom! freedom,
Make a short shrift; he longs to see your head.
No farther than the Tower; and, as I guess,
Exeunt
You use in abject and in slavish parts,
I have provided for you: stay awhile,
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.
well. Those healths will make thee and thy state
To-morrow will I wear it on my helm,
The petty wrens of Tarsus will fly hence,
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Chief factors for the gods, I do not know
Come, Warwick, come, good Warwick, go with me;
This follows, if you will not change your purpose
For even her folly help'd her to an heir.
Upon my soul,'tis true, sir.
Content thyself awhile. By the mass, 'tis morning;
lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not
commons of Melford.' How now, sir knave!
Besides, the lottery of my destiny
Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I
Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS
Must justify my knowledge.
Yet one time he did call me by my name:
Come hither, sir.
Achilles! Achilles! Hector's slain! Achilles.
To the utmost of a man, and giddy censure
Noble friends,
me your good report to the prince my master.
[Kneeling]  O you mighty gods!
Lest that the infection of his fortune take
Then Antony,--but now--Well, on.
What say'st thou, Kate? what would'st thou
Come, come, thou reverend man of Rome,
O heavens! you love me not.
Which comes to me in name of fault, I must not
Menenius ever, ever.
Not so; I think she lives.
Be patient, gentlemen; I choose her for myself:
By you invited, do attend your presence.
Strangers and foes do sunder, and not kiss.
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV in triumph; with GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and the rest
Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish
Call Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany,
brothers in filching, and in Calais they stole a
Especially for those occasions
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
Which he was lord of; or whether nature,
From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck.
With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur:
not have come.
On Saturday we will return to France.
speak to him, I will open my lips in vain, or
confirmed countenance. I saw him run after a gilded
By thee to us, and he shall be interr'd
'Tis so:
Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell'd.
Put we i' the roll of conquest: still be't yours,
Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the
That counterfeit'st the person of a king?
If son to Talbot, die at Talbot's foot.
Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth,
Good Enobarbus!
That said'st I begg'd the empire at thy hands.
Helicanus, thou
It is an earnest of a further good
Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
Keepers, convey him hence, and I myself
Beheaded publicly for his offence.
Upon my soul--
Descended of so many royal kings.
Than his that shakes for age and feebleness:
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
Out of the gripes of cruel men, and give it
Let me desire your company: he must come,
'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some Attendants
And let him cry Ha! louder!
The key whereof myself have ever kept;
Is every breath a death; and thus, unknown,
Shall it for shame be spoken in these days,
What ugly sights of death within mine eyes!
Receive thy lance; and God defend the right!
No, sir; I think the meat wants that I have.
Broken his staff of office and dispersed
Is still a dying horror!
The bay-trees in our country are all wither'd
No more than he that threats. To arms let's hie!
O spirit of love! how quick and fresh art thou,
thy old father Menenius does! O my son, my son!
What think'st thou? is it not an easy matter
Ay, but when?
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
Be by my friends in Spain advised; whose counsel
Save when command to your dismission tends,
gracious Duncan
Report is changeable. 'Tis time to look about; the
What! a knave too?
We'll leave a proof, by that which we will do,
Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
distraction, they conveyed me into a buck-basket.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The ghostly father now hath done
Why, all his behaviors did make their retire
And now may seem as wise as virtuous,
ANTIPHOLUS
So many fathom down precipitating,
guiltless and of free disposition, is to take those
knows himself to be a fool.' The heathen
As loud, and to as many tunes: hats, cloaks--
My gracious lord, return to Killingworth,
Where is she gone? Haply, despair hath seized her,
To woo so fair a dame to be his wife,
Italian master, Julio Romano, who, had he himself
Since my becomings kill me, when they do not
With all my heart, sir.
Ere you can take due orders for a priest:
Tear him, tear him! Come, brands ho! fire-brands:
Enter MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, Page, and Servants
When I shall turn the business of my soul
challenge this glove, I have sworn to take him a box
Would you enforce me to a world of care?
What kind of woman is't?
I'll to the queen: please you,
He shall be endured:
No way but gentleness; gently, gently: the fiend is
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
Enter POSTHUMUS and PHILARIO
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
Thou art as opposite to every good
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO's house.
But I did find him still mine enemy:
Not till after midnight; for he is dieted to his hour.
worth, to season.
Thy reason, man?
So well as by reflection, I, your glass,
Bear her my true love's kiss; and so, farewell.
Let go.
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
some of all professions that go the primrose
She do defeat us; for her life in Rome
Forbidden late to carry any weapon,
That he will give them make I as little question
Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours!
Enter, from one side, AENEAS, and Servant with a  torch; from the other, PARIS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, DIOMEDES, and others, with torches
Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
A foolish thing was but a toy,
against me,
And until then your entertain shall be
I am amazed at your passionate words.
And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey,
this pipe?
My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.
unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a
Re-enter IRAS with a robe, crown,  and c
Before the king will grant her humble suit.
Thy thoughts I cleave to. What's thy pleasure?
And here is writ 'love-wounded Proteus.'
Speakest thou from thy heart?
With this, we charged again: but, out, alas!
Or pricket sore, or else sorel; the people fall a-hooting.
But our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.
Lucius, who's that knocks?
Urge neither charity nor shame to me:
Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
And top of sovereignty?
In brief,--for so the season bids us be,--
We must bear all. O hard condition,
And his well-chosen bride.
But let it be: I am quickly ill, and well,
Who told me, in the narrow seas that part
Say, if thou darest, proud Lord of Warwick-shire,
Ask me what question thou canst possible,
My lord, I'll hit him now.
good favour you have, but that you have a hanging
And rather father thee than master thee.
For it requires the royal debt it lent you.
Ha! now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.
Must cover thy sweet eyes.
You may do your will;
Conrade, I say!
and how he goes! O admirable youth! he ne'er saw
ANTIPHOLUS
My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
As the Spirit speaks, SOUTHWELL writes the answer
It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
should be hanged and carved upon these trees?
This paper is the history of my knowledge
To be so rid o' the business.
And each one to his office when he wakes.
scab follow.
Having fully dined before.
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,
Be bounteous at our meal.
Enter CLARENCE, with drum and colours
And now is York in arms to second him.
Let him, my son: he shall not need to grieve
Go to, go to, thou art a foolish fellow:
As much as in him lies, from time to time
Aside
as Claudio's, to cross this in the smallest.
SONG.
Then I would he were here alone; so should he be
How now, sweetheart! who's at home besides yourself?
Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,
For when I was a king, my flatterers
But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye:
My noble masters, hear me speak.
O, Harry, thou hast robb'd me of my youth!
In the king's business.
Dear my lord, pardon,--I dare not,
Upon your will to suffer.
I faint: O Iras, Charmian! 'tis no matter.
These things seem small and undistinguishable,
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
greatness to impart to Armado, a soldier, a man of
To his music plants and flowers
Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the
Which is budded out;
Boundless intemperance
Thanks for your pains.
Let dying Mortimer here rest himself.
and what one thing, what another, that I shall
Here.
I'll mark no words that smooth-faced wooers say:
Nay, my choler is ended.
Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes, to get myself
I daily vow to use it. Come and lead me
Became him like the leaving it; he died
Between the acting of a dreadful thing
To counsel me to make my peace with God,
Which owe the crown that thou o'ermasterest?
And, being protector, stayed the soldiers' pay;
Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak,
And wedded be thou to the hags of hell,
Belong to the gallows, and be hanged, ye rogue! is
What need she, when she hath made you write to
to undo us. Will you not go the way of women-kind?
about to expound this dream. Methought I was--there
A crown for York! and, lords, bow low to him:
ta'en you newly into his grace; where it is
When black-faced Clifford shook his sword at him;
An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipped.
As in a looking-glass, and then to sigh, as 'twere
Famous in Caesar's praises, no whit less
Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear,
I have three daughters; the eldest is eleven
All sleep except ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, and ANTONIO
I will not speak with her.
An honour! were not I thine only nurse,
Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed,
Here 'tis; here's a paper: shall I read it to you?
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
for, I protest, her frown might kill me.
Ay, but mildly.
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
No, they are both as whole as a fish.
By whom, Camillo?
how it takes up the shore! but that's not the
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
wronged by you.
Exeunt CLITUS, DARDANIUS, and VOLUMNIUS
I come by note, to give and to receive.
I had a monopoly out, they would have part on't:
His bounty overplus: the messenger
The thickest and the tallest! it is so; truth is truth.
Thou dost thyself and all our Troy deceive.
Hither return all gilt with Frenchmen's blood;
spoil of the city until night: for with these borne
Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
To his confine: and of the truth herein
The violets, cowslips, and the primroses,
Not so, neither: but know that I have to-night
For the sea's worth. But, look! what lights come yond?
Ay; and that thou and the proudest of you all shall
lack no barns.
should not pass here; no, though it were as virtuous
Enter GLOUCESTER, solus
Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
They sit
Who hath not seen them, even with those wings
It is a day turn'd strangely: or betimes
Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!
Of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd
Sweet prince, why speak not you?
Alas, poor duke! the task he undertakes
Rather our state's defective for requital
It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
That we may wake the king: he hath slept long.
But, lovely niece, that mean is cut from thee;
Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them.
never return to tell one.
For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
And is not careful what they mean thereby,
Were factious for the house of Lancaster;
With barbarous ignorance and deny his youth
SCENE IV. Before the castle.
I shall no leading need.
To be exiled, and thrown
Show!
He hath no daughters, sir.
Sir, this young fellow's mother could: whereupon
I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it
All pity choked with custom of fell deeds:
Bars me the right of voluntary choosing:
Be not deceived: if I have veil'd my look,
I will put it to them: but vir sapit qui pauca
Now, by the honour of my ancestry,
Exit a Lord
Send us your prisoners, or you will hear of it.
know no wise remedy how to avoid it.
O Setebos, these be brave spirits indeed!
Follow'd thy heels.
Tis now the very witching time of night,
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
Bardolph's nose, and a' said it was a black soul
Enter, on the walls, a Master Gunner and his Boy
Still going?
Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain,
Know the glove! I know the glove is glove.
It is, because no one should sway but he;
to stay within: I like his money well. O, here he comes.
Upon the right and party of her son?
be born under Mars.
Though little fire grows great with little wind,
Steal me awhile from mine own company.
'Zounds, it is even now at my elbow, persuading me
And give you to the gods.
To attend your highness' pleasure.
My hunger's gone; but even before, I was
and blood has not offended the king; and so your
I will confess what I know without constraint: if
I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some
The commonwealth hath daily run to wreck;
Exit Messenger
The midwife wonder'd and the women cried
Of purpose to obscure my noble birth.
Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
offenders, and let Time try: adieu.
cuckold Ford.
Augment, or alter, as your wisdoms best
I have sent twenty out to seek for you.
All, all; and, moreover, God saw him when he was
As friend remember'd not.
Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
Plead what I will be, not what I have been;
To set the crown once more on Henry's head:
Nay, 'tis for me to be patient; I am in adversity.
When once she is my wife.
This same is she, and I do give you her.
What is granted them?
Tush! never tell me; I take it much unkindly
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
I must go seek some dewdrops here
Exit
To bear that load of title?
A' will betray us all unto ourselves:
which rolls, and rolls, and rolls: in good truth,
The very wings of reason to his heels
Get you to bed again; it is not day.
Here 'tis; this is it.
In the remembrance of a weeping queen.
And as the air blows it to me again,
My desolation does begin to make
Shall witness to him I am near at home,
And still, as you are weary of the weight,
Which read and not expounded, 'tis decreed,
Wishing him my meat. Sure, he's a gallant gentleman.
We have record that very well it can,
We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming.
The bristled lips before him: be bestrid
Methought you said
Labouring for nine.
Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife.
Therefore lay hold of him;
One good woman in ten, madam; which is a purifying
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
No, monster, not I.
But if my frosty signs and chaps of age,
As is a dead man's nose: but I do see't and feel't
obstruction?
I Costard, running out, that was safely within,
Than to rejoice the former queen is well?
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and EUPHRONIUS
How now, Shylock! what news among the merchants?
Though they are made and moulded of things past,
As, let 'em have their rights, they are ever forward--
You to your land and love and great allies:
It is not night when I do see your face,
Madam, undress you and come now to bed.
He never did harm, that I heard of.
In France: 'tis plate of rare device, and jewels
Alas, he is too young! yet he looks successfully.
To wait upon this new-made empress.
And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence.
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made;
My uncle is return'd:
Your husband, being troubled with a shrew,
He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth;
I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo,
Which makes me think that this Antonio,
The dateless limit of thy dear exile;
Here's no place for you: pray, go to the door.
But there's no remedy; I shall answer it.
The prayers of priests nor times of sacrifice,
It lies in you, my lord, to bring me in some grace,
I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house
But first I'll turn yon fellow in his grave;
None about Caesar trust but Proculeius.
Than lying, vainness, babbling, drunkenness,
Those are they
Sir, if you spend word for word with me, I shall
Enter TYBALT
The villain Jew with outcries raised the duke,
is to pleasure you, coz. Can you love the maid?
Full of protest, of oath and big compare,
window, for all this, There will come a Christian
To BOYET
Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart,
Is rank'd with all deserts, all kind of natures,
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON, guarded
Methinks his words do from such passion fly,
Into our city with thy banners spread:
Wherein my time something too prodigal
For has not the divine Apollo said,
Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?
I will do so. Signior Fabian, stay you by this
Not if the small come first.
To punish this offence in other faults:
And crown what I profess with kind event
Sit you too.
Yea, for obtaining of suits, whereof the hangman
To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
Or else he must not only die the death,
rheum: therefore is it most expedient for the
And, will they take the offer of our grace,
From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;
Than those proud titles thou hast won of me;
I am sorry, then, you have so lost a father
Thus ornament is but the guiled shore
Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres,
We are alone; here's none but thee and I.
Accursed if the fault be proved in them,--
Have won his grace to come in person hither
Come, Hector, come, go back:
To know my errand, madam.
Were two full moons; he had a thousand noses,
Enter, from one side, OBERON, with his train; from the other, TITANIA, with hers
And fighting foot to foot.
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
and Caesar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and
Make haste, make haste.
forbear both.
In a most hideous and dreadful manner:
every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
May be, nor can I think the contrary,
It gives me wonder great as my content
But age, with his stealing steps,
Unto these sorrows.
No, not take interest, not, as you would say,
But in my bosom shall she never come,
Plainly denouncing vengeance upon John.
rather, the prophecy like the parrot, 'beware the
I could put thee in comfort. Not by two that I know:
Of my cousin Vernon's are not yet come up:
For this I owe you: here comes other reckonings.
I may command where I adore;
call. Bully knight! bully Sir John! speak from
And what does else want credit, come to me,
Sink in the trial. Comes his army on?
And graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead;
commend me to thy honourable virtuous lord, my very
O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.
And even in kind love I do conjure thee,
Exit
Disdain to call us lord, and Picardy
Stand in bold cure.
He shall again relate.
cats and dogs,
Awakes my conscience to confess all this.
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
Dost thou not laugh?
And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard!'
That he, our hope, might have retired his power,
By putting on the cunning of a carper.
My noble lords; for those that tame wild horses
You have not dared to break the holy seal
'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
And though I make this marriage for my peace,
right butter-women's rank to market.
of the Romans.
At heel of that, defy him.
Such instigations have been often dropp'd
And thus I set my foot on 's neck;' even then
We from the west will send destruction
Our paragon to all reports thus blasted,
Within this three mile may you see it coming;
Sound trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SOMERSET, with Attendants
Except, O signieur, thou do give to me
me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
Treason! foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave!
Mine ear hath tempted judgment to desire.
Enter a Messenger
There is a kind of character in thy life,
Hector, thou sleep'st;
Of spirit so still and quiet, that her motion
And then it started like a guilty thing
hour is an honourable badge of the service; and I do
Whose bowels suddenly burst out: the king
Women will love her, that she is a woman
And, captain, you must needs be friends with him.
hedge and follow you.
The next degree is England's royal throne;
Of the whole dungy earth.
ACT II
What, are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes
They should be good men; their affairs as righteous:
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
A noise of hunters heard. Enter divers Spirits,  in shape of dogs and hounds, and hunt them about, PROSPERO and ARIEL setting them on
He was not sad, for he would shine on those
With Margery Jourdain, the cunning witch,
And rob his temples of the diadem,
Sweet Moon, I thank thee for thy sunny beams;
silent, and not confess so much, were a kind of
These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her:
Making both it unable for itself,
Lead him off.
That I might sleep out this great gap of time
Enter SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE
To pluck me by the beard.
Proposed for the deserver! O gentle Pandarus,
That I have blown this coal: I do deny it:
To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day.
Sith every action that hath gone before,
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats and pease;
Which time will bring to light in smooth
I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels,
Be't their comfort
Cripple our senators, that their limbs may halt
SCENE III. A street.
No, my complete master: but to jig off a tune at
Give him as much as will make him a royal man, and
Give him allowance for the better man;
Come, then; for with a wound I must be cured.
So many days my ewes have been with young;
As Angelo; even so may Angelo,
And say 'This man's a flatterer?' if one be,
Well, well; there's one yonder arrested and carried
And suffer'd me by the voice of slaves to be
So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.
of our company?
I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a
That little cares for buying any thing.
His face I know not.
When she does praise me grieves me. I have done
I read it in the grammar long ago.
This day I'll rise, or else add ill to ill.
We'll bring your grace e'en to the edge o' the shore,
With thy religious truth and modesty,
With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord,
Not sound?
Give me thy hand.
As a fair day in summer, wondrous fair.
Come, come, you are a fool
Sword, hold thy temper; heart, be wrathful still:
This is she--
Here lie I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell,
Going to chapel; and the voice is now
DON
Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb?
And sometime make the drink to bear no barm;
Exeunt
ANTIPHOLUS
O, pardon, that I name them! Your high self,
The borrow'd majesty, of England here.
Much good do you, scauld knave, heartily. Nay, pray
Away with slavish weeds and servile thoughts!
Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
Of Comagene; Polemon and Amyntas,
To go in person with me to my house.
Can labour ought in sad invention,
The uncleanly savours of a slaughter-house;
I would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly:
Takes from his high respect: thither Macduff
With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
The canon of the law is laid on him,
Meet me to-morrow in St. George's field,
I mean, in perjured witness, than your master,
So tender of rebukes that words are strokes
The sword of our slain kings: yet do not fear;
Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have,
The armourer of my heart: false, false; this, this.
Should die for ever.
'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honour;
One heaved a-high, to be hurl'd down below;
Have one man but a man? And that is it
To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face. Thisby!
For which I razed my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,
courtier's hands are perfumed with civet.
Now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide,
That, to deserve well at my brother's hands,
Have got a speeding trick to lay down ladies;
Come, come, we fear the worst; all shall be well.
The poet's eye, in fine frenzy rolling,
SCENE I. A public place.
he hath killed, otherwise he had suffered for't.
So is running away, when fear proposes the safety;
I did present him with the Paris balls.
To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed,
And I believe twill never stand upright
I pray you, let-a me speak a word with your ear.
Himself love's traitor: this is pity now,
Shall have a thousand crowns for his reward.
Negligent student! learn her by heart.
She is no match for you.
And they thy glory through my grief will show:
And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.
O pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity!
say they are Persian attire: but let them be changed.
Did never sonnet for her sake compile,
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
Yet have I fierce affections, and think
[Within]  What, ho! Peace here; grace and good company!
The horrible conceit of death and night,
No, trust me; she is peevish, sullen, froward,
And lose my hopes.
Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;
That shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost,
With hair up-staring,--then like reeds, not hair,--
Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of
Wherever in your sightless substances
Yet he would be king on't.
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
Away, away, be gone.
Therefore, at your vantage,
The effects of his fond jealousies so grieving
When his fair angels would salute my palm;
A' would have ten shares.
Attending but the signal to begin.
Thou art too brief: I will the second time,
But not for that dream I on this strange course,
No more, I say.
These poor informal women are no more
Look to that, devil; lest that France repent,
Hast thou, spirit,
A goodly house: the feast smells well; but I
Stay but a little, I will come again.
I speak amazedly; and it becomes
What says our general?
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
you'll sweat for't.
taught to find me? The search, sir, was profitable;
and already appearing in the blossoms of their fortune.
I'll hear him his confessions justify;
perjury; some, making the wars their bulwark, that
She's, like a liar, gone to burning hell:
own country, be out of love with your nativity and
Hate counsels not in such a quality.
I will discase me, and myself present
shouldst know it; I am an honest man's wife: and,
Can in this desert place buy entertainment,
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the
Quick, quick, I pray thee; draw the curtain straight:
I warrant, an I should live a thousand years,
serve you to mend your shoes: come, wherefore should
Exeunt
for the time when. Now for the ground which; which,
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS. The two Servingmen come forward
You took the moon at full, but now she's changed.
Being skilless in these parts; which to a stranger,
SCENE IV. Forres. The palace.
How have you slept, my lord?
Else your memory is bad, going o'er it erewhile.
to waste: about it.
Call you this gamut? tut, I like it not:
Piercing a hogshead! a good lustre of conceit in a
With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
little page, of all loves: her husband has a
A comfort of retirement lives in this.
Come hither, sir.
Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
me turn i' the wheel.
but for a fine, quaint, graceful and excellent
As she would catch another Antony
Do like this worst.
Reignier, is't thou that thinkest to beguile me?
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succor sent,
Exeunt Lords
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Live in thy tongue and heart: old Escalus,
'Go tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
Given Hydra here to choose an officer,
At his heels a stone.
grace was said.
My pretty cousins, you mistake me much;
Fery well: what is it?
That spoil'd your summer fields and fruitful vines,
Yet, to avoid deceit, I mean to learn;
Thunder and lightning. Enter three Witches
And fan our people cold. Norway himself,
Asleep, my love?
Well, happiness to their sheets! Come, lieutenant, I
O, make for Tarsus!
And handed love as you do, I was wont
know himself.
I wish your enterprise to-day may thrive.
Exit MARDIAN
things that are hollow: thy bones are hollow;
Visit by night your lady's chamber-window
You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?
A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats,
Besides, if things go well,
Lord Saturninus Rome's great emperor,
and credit and as I hope to live.
Behoves me keep at utterance. I am perfect
will predominate over the peasant, and thou shalt
sentenced him. To make you understand this in a
What a drunken knave was the sea to cast thee in our
Atone together.
Stand aside: the noise they make
When shall I hear all through? This fierce
Then let my father's blood open it again:
Good lady,
Be patient; for I will not let him stir
which laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
Hark ye; not so: in witness, take ye that.
Our strong possession and our right for us.
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
Your rule direct to any; if to me.
him last night.
most sage demoiselle dat is en France.
BISHOP
To underprop this action? Is't not I
You have made good work,
In argument and proof of which contract,
Enter SUFFOLK
Enter CLAUDIO, BEATRICE, HERO, and LEONATO
Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.
Bear'st thou her face in mind? is't long or round?
Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
'tis not amiss we tender our loves to him, in this
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
And make a dark night too of half the day--
As well my undertakings as your counsels:
Sweet queen, sweet queen! that's a sweet queen, i' faith.
He longs to eat the English.
On more mechanic compliment; I'll leave thee
No, but the loss of his own royal person.
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
For so appears this fleet majestical,
Not possible; for who shall bear your part,
Aside
For not bestowing on him, at his asking,
Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope.
In faith, he is a worthy gentleman,
The coward horse that bears me fail and die!
Through all the signories it was the first
As he to me: would he have stolen away
motion, that it is inevitable; and on the answer, he
He cannot, sir; he's out at elbow.
And your great love to me restrains you thus:
Exit BIGOT
[Awaking]  O Helena, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!
Farewell.
I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children;
speakest well of fools!
Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed.
Than my out-wall, open this purse, and take
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
Past thought! What said she to you? Get more tapers:
O miserable lady! But, for me,
As I my poor self did exchange for you,
Thy biddings have been done; and every hour,
Look who comes yonder: she shall be our messenger
the carpets laid, and every thing in order?
God help the wicked! if to be old and merry be a
solemnity, her brother Frederick was wrecked at sea,
heart was not consenting to.
Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir,
creep under his gaberdine; there is no other
With his own sword,
Survives; to whom, thyself art witness,
Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
For, as he writes, there is no quailing now.
And batters down himself: what should I say?
Corn for the rich men only: with these shreds
''Tis right:' quoth he; 'thus misery doth part
And bid us welcome to your sheep-shearing,
Peter Quince! Flute, the bellows-mender! Snout,
Heavens defend me from that Welsh fairy, lest he
Directly seasons him his enemy.
The food of thy abused father's wrath!
And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart.
the athversary, you may discuss unto the duke, look
But few now living can behold that goodness--
And when the rage allays, the rain begins.
When last the young Orlando parted from you
And flourish'd after, I'ld not do't; but since
Noise and tumult within. Enter Porter and his Man
Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell:
A dollar.
Tying him to aught; so putting him to rage,
Stay, ho! and let us hear Mark Antony.
And skip where thou point'st out? will the
That we have stol'n what we do fear to keep!
shall make it whole again; you shall piece it out
it agrees well, passant; it is a familiar beast to
avoid that too, with an If. I knew when seven
An old hare hoar,
Being so near the truth as I will make them,
A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore
seems he to be touched?
Let frantic Talbot triumph for a while
Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold.
And for her sake do I rear up her boy,
had ne'er come here.
Who can be angry now? what envy reach you?
Is there not my father, my uncle and myself? lord
Behold her that gave aim to all thy oaths,
I am so lated in the world, that I
Hear me, my liege:
O' the jewel house,
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Should say myself offended, and with you
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,
Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.
Take heed, have open eye, for thieves do foot by night:
How grounded he his title to the crown,
Which nor our nature nor our place can bear,
Though that the queen on special cause is here,
How now, madam!
My grisly countenance made others fly;
Where's your commission, lords? words cannot carry
They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-faced villain,
Presented to my knife his throat: I took him;
Good morrow, Caesar.
How low am I, thou painted maypole? speak;
They did amongst the troops of armed men
Where is that slave, thy brother? where is he,
And from my shoulders crack my arms asunder.
No: the princess hearing of her mother's statue,
I departed not and left him there.
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
I thank you, sir.
Though by the tenor of our strict edict,
The purest spring is not so free from mud
A Clifford! a Clifford! we'll follow the king and Clifford.
But shorten thy life one week. And thou, fresh piece
I am thine.
The time of night when Troy was set on fire;
I shall receive the money for the same.
And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
Why, hers, in part or all; but rather, all;
Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
Prevented from a damned enterprise:
For none, neither.
And, though mine enemy, restored again
And there is such confusion in my powers,
Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come gentlemen,
Iago, my reputation!
My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
he says is here now in the house by your consent, to
unthought of and speak out of my injury.
graze and my lambs suck.
'Tis like, my lord, you will not keep your hour.
An honest mind and plain, he must speak truth!
Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
forty thousand fathom above water, and sung this
I hope the king made peace with all of us
They want their porridge and their fat bull-beeves:
Give us the foils. Come on.
But go at once.
much like a cheese; consumes itself to the very
But with that surname; a good memory,
Which here you urge to prove us enemies,
And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit,
knavery. If he may be conveniently delivered, I
Away with Slender and with him at Eton
See what a rent the envious Casca made:
What, is't too short? I'll lengthen it with mine:
The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
subject, makes old hearts fresh: they that went on
Since night you loved me; yet since night you left
can be filled.
He call'd her whore: a beggar in his drink
And by their hands this grace of kings must die,
Nay, it perchance will sparkle in your eyes;
To bear my greeting to the senators
But bid farewell, and go: when you sued staying,
The Lord Bassanio live an upright life;
For me, that I may surely keep mine oath,
We recommend to you, tribunes of the people,
To every ticklish reader! set them down
lost my crupper, with many things of worthy memory,
Hold, hold, hold, hold!
Service.
Which, like a taper in some monument,
I do beseech you, know me.
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
And tell the fishes he's the queen's son, Cloten:
That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
Gave healthful welcome to their shipwreck'd guests;
Seal what I end withal! This double worship,
Which thou pour'st down from these swelling heavens
Nor curstness grow to the matter.
Proceed to judgment: by my soul I swear
Will cut their passage through the force of France,
neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in
You are a fair viol, and your sense the strings;
O slanderous world! Kate like the hazel-twig
truly, he is very courageous mad about his throwing
Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear:
To offend, and judge, are distinct offices
Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way:
As if he pluck'd up kisses by the roots
Sauf votre honneur, de elbow.
Ten thousand swelling toads, as many urchins,
Our aery buildeth in the cedar's top,
To tell your grace, that, having heard by fame
to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
Shall in the general censure take corruption
O heavenly Julia!
So doth the swan her downy cygnets save,
They might have lived to bear and he to taste
And waste the time, which looks for other revels.
afternoon?
Nothing, but this is so.
I thought of her,
Would you were half so honest!
With all my heart I thank thee for my father!
Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.
Exit MESSALA
Grandpre and Roussi, Fauconberg and Foix,
To take them in protection?
The duke, my husband and my children both,
How they affect the house and claim of York.
Retires
High on a stage be placed to the view;
with the story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go
For of joy, being altogether wanting,
By their proscriptions, Cicero being one.
apple, yet I can tell what I can tell.
Is this done?
Ay, sir, for three months.
Farewell, my Desdemona: I'll come to thee straight.
The time is fair again.
One way or other, she is for a king;
You make amends.
And thereupon these errors are arose.
For Imogen's dear life take mine; and though
A novice of this place and the fair sister
Exeunt
As bending angels; that's their fame in peace:
Let us about it: it is admirable pleasures and fery
Come home with me to supper; and I'll lay
And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else.
A cry of women within
And make your channel his? If he have power
His faults lie open to the laws; let them,
The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
I would be friends with you and have your love,
Will give thee all the world.
Till he behold them form'd in the applause
How now, Dame Partlet the hen! have you inquired
As with a man busied about decrees:
And do not say 'tis superstition, that
Please you, I'll write your ladyship another.
It is my birth-day:
To stop the rumor, and allay those tongues
things supernatural and causeless. Hence is it that
SCENE I. A wood near Athens.
Benefactors? Well; what benefactors are they? are
No wars without doors: Caesar gets money where
Aside
must, that's certain, or forswear to wear iron about you.
The word is 'mildly.' Pray you, let us go:
Take this along; I writ it for thy sake
What hour now?
To thee and thine hereditary ever
eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
To keep me from a most unholy match,
O dear father,
Not a word with him but a jest.
Whom thou lovest best: see thou dissemble not.
Fear not slander, censure rash;
So, sir: I desire of you
go to bed.
take his bond.
Madam, sit you and fear not: whom we raise,
If I would time expend with such a snipe.
And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch
I have done so, but he's not to be found.
His daughter first, and then in sequel all,
And will deny him:
Should dying men flatter with those that live?
And churlish chiding of the winter's wind,
To his new kingdom of perpetual rest.
Found in his pocket too; and this, it seems,
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can,
With written pamphlets studiously devised,
Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem!' when he should groan,
For, boy, however we do praise ourselves,
That may discover such integrity:
'Las, what's the matter? what's the matter, husband?
To kiss.
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own;
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness
So, haply, are they friends to Antony.
Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me,--
Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
Near and on speedy foot; the main descry
Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly.
themselves;
More fond on her than she upon her love:
As having sense of beauty, do omit
My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
Till I have thank'd you: when dinner's done,
My reformation, glittering o'er my fault,
And these fresh nymphs encounter every one
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity--
I cannot blame his conscience.
I'll be as good as my word: he will bear you easily
ANTIPHOLUS
Inform'd them! Dost thou understand me, man?
To this most cruel act, do but despair;
The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale,
Is crown'd so soon, and broke his solemn oath?
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
Poor we may call them in their native lords.
had banished thy uncle, the duke my father, so thou
Give up your keys.
Is my report to his great worthiness.
Of her or you, having proceeded but
My lord,
Talks as familiarly of roaring lions
beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy
As if she had suborned some to swear
For he was more than over shoes in love.
But wherefore do I tell these news to thee?
Poor Cassio's smiles, gestures and light behavior,
Alarum. Hector and Ajax fight
Shall Henry's conquest, Bedford's vigilance,
Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray.
Well, good night.
I hate: I had as lief be a Brownist as a
Exeunt certain Officers
on't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched
Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have used thee,
To lay one in, another out to have.
Which cannot perish having thee aboard,
At our importance hither is he come,
And for your love to her lead apes in hell.
The Windsor bell hath struck twelve; the minute
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
He bade me store up, as a triple eye,
go on the right hand: I will but look upon the
I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see
I'll make one too.
So dying love lives still:
Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,
Leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on
Your servant's servant is your servant, madam.
And the new deputy now for the duke--
What men?
Myself or Menelaus?
I pray thee, sort thy heart to patience;
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
With a new Gorgon: do not bid me speak;
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Or, like obedient subjects, follow him
Why does the drum come hither?
Lucilius' Servant	Mark, how strange it shows,
We were dissuaded by our wicked queen;
Alack, let it blood.
contents, as in part I understand them, are to blame.
If promises be kept on every hand,
That head of thine doth not become a crown;
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate; or else shall I?
Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
A plague upon it, it is in Gloucestershire;
form of marriage, and you shall recount their
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO
That seeth not this palpable device?
And bear possession of our person here,
The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
Make livers pale and lustihood deject.
Call it by what you will, the day is yours;
In earnest of further benefit,
Over hill, over dale,
You peers, continue this united league:
To see her tears; but be your heart to them
A thousand times committed; Cassio confess'd it:
As on the other side it takes from you.
I know, is such a wrest in their affairs
This prince in justice seizeth but his own.
word in your ear: sir, I say to you, it is thought
I saw good strawberries in your garden there
I would detain you here some month or two
The same dead thing alive.
I have led you oft: carry me now, good friends,
His coming hither hath no further scope
Upon his good and gracious nature hanging
Here, Diomed, keep this sleeve.
I would with such perfection govern, sir,
Since that the truest issue of thy throne
Sing it: 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it
I know thee well, though never seen before.
Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
I do suspect I have done some offence
Out on thee, rude man! thou dost shame thy mother
I would do more than that, if more were needful.
He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
Good my liege,--
Ay, my good lord.
But not possess'd it, and, though I am sold,
It is to be all made of faith and service;
So, get thee gone, that I may know my grief;
So he is.
For they are certain and unfallible.
The worthy thane of Ross.
Gentlemen,
Has the old man e'er a son, sir, do you hear. an't
A villain that is hither come in spite,
Which is a great way growing on the south,
The gentlest winds of heaven.
That King Leontes shall not have an heir
We should have found a bloody day of this.
To give each naked curtle-axe a stain,
That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
Why did you wish me milder? would you have me
Hark you, sir, do you know where ye are?
I thought she had some great matter there in hand;
Set foot under thy table: tut, a toy!
Agreed.
Exeunt severally
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
Runs posting on in Bolingbroke's proud joy,
Let's follow the old earl, and get the Bedlam
About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
Before the expiration of thy time,
Young gentlemen would be as sad as night,
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
And with him there lie mudded.
Hast thou drunk well?
Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'
petticoat: and indeed the tears live in an onion
Tell her, Emilia.
The very mercy of the law cries out
We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!
The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles,
Of Learning, late deceased in beggary.'
O, let me live!
According to their firm proposed natures.
Madam, the same; your servant.
he talked very wisely, but I regarded him not; and
Ill d eeds are doubled with an evil word.
Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and
Clamours of hell, be measures to our pomp?
Never till then.
My lord, the king your father.
Where is the number of our English dead?
O wretched villain!
Disappears
Just the contrary; the better for thy friends.
Or shall we sparingly show you far off
A pretty peat! it is best
Though all the world should crack their duty to you,
cudgel, and twenty pounds of money, which must be
Good morrow, Brutus; do we trouble you?
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
that, when your lordship this other day sent to me,
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect
See, where he lies inhearsed in the arms
But if thou scorn our courtesy, thou diest.
which is politic, nor the lady's, which is nice, nor
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
The untimely emptying of the happy throne
Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
There's some ill planet reigns:
Better be held nor more attain'd than by
I love thee.
Enter, severally, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as a friar, and Provost
Into his title, the which we find
Here is the head; I'll carry it myself.
Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death,
nothing, let him call me rogue for being so far
Be worthily entertain'd.
the flatterer. Heavens, that I were a lord!
but, since it is as it is, mend it for your own good.
Exactly is perform'd: but there's more work.
Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice.
Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
I would have made them skip: I am old now,
you hindered by the sergeant, to tarry for the hoy
Are mighty gossips in this monarchy.
Their mortal natures, letting go safely by
And not a man of them shall have the grace,
Methought I had; and often did I strive
Help me this once, that France may get the field.
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
That once were his, and is become as black
And came I not at last to comfort you?
What things again most dear in the esteem
Her mother, ever strong against that match
I pray you, be acquainted with this maid;
Ay, what of that?
A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
You love my son; invention is ashamed,
Would I were fairly out on't!
Even out of your report. But, pray you, tell me,
best sheep, which I fear the wolf will sooner find
And this our life exempt from public haunt
I to my grave, where peace and rest lie with me!
For since the substance of your perfect self
is not this my jerkin? Now is the jerkin under
Who hath most fortunately been inform'd
Than stands on any shoulder that I see
Peace, peace! see further; he eyes us not; forbear;
As shall with either part's agreement stand?
To have her match'd: and having now provided
Let it suffice the greatness of your powers
By the gods, I have not:
They draw
He by the senate is accit'd home
Aged contusions and all brush of time,
Now, Iras, what think'st thou?
How now, Varrius!
Done to death by slanderous tongues
Sir, your glove.
I would have put my wealth into donation,
Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours:
Belike, for joy the emperor hath a son.
Be call'd our mother, but our grave; where nothing,
That which I have than, coveting for more,
Enter KING HENRY V, GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and Attendants
yet.
Music
you're drunk.
Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting,
To York-place, where the feast is held.
Re-enter ARIEL before: then ALONSO, with a  frantic gesture, attended by GONZALO;  SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO in like manner,  attended by ADRIAN and FRANCISCO   they all  enter the circle which PROSPERO had made,  and there stand charmed; which PROSPERO observing, speaks:
But chiefly for thy face and thy behavior,
Into an auger's bore.
Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;
He shall here find his friends with horse and men
This cherry nose,
But, worthy lords, have you with heed perused
The tune of Imogen!
And leave thee in the storm,
He never will come again.
A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
bearing my port, 'celsa senis,' that we might
Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it.
Who prays continually for Richmond's good:
Mistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, and
Let's stand close, and behold him.
Is it a man?
Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by the wall
Speak, for my heart is full.
A wonder!
I am undone: there is no living, none,
Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
Sweet ladies, will it please you sit? Sir Harry,
I here resign my government to thee,
Like bubbles in a late-disturbed stream;
Were red-hot steel, to sear me to the brain!
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
I do desire thee, even from a heart
That all the tears that thy poor eyes let fall
marry, thus, my lord: my dear lord and most esteemed
That thou her maid art far more fair than she:
God's my life, where's the sexton? let him write
If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
been wise.
And here he comes. What shall be next,
Leontes, king of Sicilia, thou art here accused and
As presence did present them; him in eye,
I know of none;
Why, sir, a carpenter.
I told him of the army that was landed;
sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
Supposing it a thing impossible,
I would not spend another such a night,
Come not home in twice six moons,
The Lord protect him from that kingly title!
Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took
And praise myself for charity.
Thou art the cause, and most accursed effect.
Enter, on the other side of the field, RICHMOND,  Sir William Brandon, OXFORD, and others. Some of the Soldiers pitch RICHMOND's tent
You tender more your person's honour than
But tickles still the sore.
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
Where peremptory Warwick now remains:
Love they to live that love and honour have.
world, familiar to us and unknown to lay apart
Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
[Kneeling]
Martext. But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the
What would your Grace have me to do in this?
[Reads]  Upon his many protestations to marry me
All other devils that suggest by treasons
Just and upright; and, for your royal birth,
Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:
Thou that givest whores indulgences to sin:
His daughter meanly have I match'd in marriage;
That cannot so much as a blossom yield
Your brother--no, no brother; yet the son--
And if he speak of Buckingham, pray, tell him
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
I do not like 'But yet,' it does allay
Hath he conversed with the enemy,
Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright
That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
O most false love!
man.
I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.
As he's reported by this gentleman;
That violates the smallest branch herein:
Exit
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
Why 'her unhappy brother'? let me ask,
Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
That's off, that's off;
Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see
I like thy counsel; well hast thou advised:
Come on, our queen: to-morrow must we part;
And the like tender of our love we make,
By the pricking of my thumbs,
I would you did but see how it chafes, how it rages,
No note at all of our being absent hence;
Ay, boy.
Cannot be truly follow'd. You shall mark
Show me a murderer, I'll deal with him.
In Brittany, received intelligence
all the chamber smelt him. 'Out with the dog!' says
Come, mistress, now perforce we will enjoy
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my
Nor her, nor thee, nor any of thy stock:
Here lurks no treason, here no envy swells,
As he is very potent with such spirits,
To quit the fine for one half of his goods,
Come in, without there!
Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
Are such allow'd infirmities that honesty
Would I could answer
shall find us in our salt-water girdle: if you
Torment me for my love's forgetfulness!
withal and who he stands still withal.
I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,
Pray for me! I must now forsake ye: the last hour
They do not go together.
Ay, my lord;
Dear gentlewoman,
To do what?
The knave counterfeits well; a good knave.
Within thy help and holy physic lies:
If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take
comfort. She calls you, coz: I'll leave you.
I warrant you, he's the man should fight with him.
How pitiful I deserve,--
Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke;
devils' additions, the names of fiends: but
Where hearing should not latch them.
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
cause, and merry against the hair: he hath the
His silver skin laced with his golden blood;
Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
As the event stamps them: but they have a good
Till you hear further from his highness.
A brother's dead love, which she would keep fresh
No matter.
But, as I think,--for truly would I speak,
Look, here she comes.
Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.
But nature makes that mean: so, over that art
When thou shalt see I'll meet thee to thy cost.
I'll never--
Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
Madam, you are call'd back.
Welcome, mistress.
Re-enter the EARL OF DOUGLAS
In marriage-pleasures play-fellow:
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare.
Nothing, my lord.
And whisper one another in the ear;
And while I live, I'll ne'er fly from a man.
If circumstances lead me, I will find
But no more sights!--Where are these gentlemen?
I mean that her beauty is exquisite, but her favour infinite.
In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk:
He was perfumed like a milliner;
Were present when she finish'd.
What, John Rugby! John!
Till you conclude that he upon whose side
Go take her hence, and marry her instantly.
They will not answer to that epithet;
That my revengeful services may prove
Pray, let us go.
Leave unsaluted: sink, my knee, i' the earth;
Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit,
For certain, sir, he is not: I have a file
Sir, as I have a soul, she is an angel;
This chaos, when degree is suffocate,
In Margaret's battle at Saint Alban's slain?
Hath my maid's garments: he upon some action
Submitting me unto the perilous night,
Again!
For you shall hence upon your wedding-day:
I am glad to see you, good Master Slender.
My lord, what is your will?
careless desolation; but you are no such man; you
like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a
Be Duke of Lancaster; let him be king.
A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
The sun was not so true unto the day
You know the goodness I intend upon you:
This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head.
At length the sun, gazing upon the earth,
And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep,
So, now the gates are ope: now prove good seconds:
The Jew shall have all justice; soft! no haste:
Exit
Draws a knife
Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
When possibly I can, I will return.
The moon of Rome, chaste as the icicle
friend of mine come to town tells me there is three
Albeit considerations infinite
And make us even with you. My thanes and kinsmen,
Stand you a while aloof, Cesario,
I know you are the Muskos' regiment:
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
But they can see a sort of traitors here.
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
AJAX and HECTOR enter the lists
I must have leave to pass.
Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.
Left to be finished by such as she;
O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked
Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey:
Will guard your person while you take your rest,
Why, art not thou the man?
day he wrestled?
hurt home to-day? he's not hurt: why, this will do
'Tis true.
Exeunt
Yields us kind answer.
Where you with Silvia may confer at large;
Yea, that she did: but yet, for all that, an if she
We have consented to all terms of reason.
As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
Coy looks with heart-sore sighs; one fading moment's mirth
O, look upon me, sir,
Pray, tell 'em thus much from me:
[Aside]	I may perceive
That you yet know not of: we'll see our husbands
Is of a king become a banish'd man,
Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:
If fear hath made thee faint, as me it hath--
Unsavoury news! but how made he escape?
With less allegiance in it! Men that make
As long a term as yet we have to live,
Raining the tears of lamentation
Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury;
'Tis done already, and the messenger gone.
Let me pour in some sack to the Thames water; for my
my counterfeiting the action of an old woman,
And hug it in mine arms.
Since he could draw a sword, and is ill school'd
And bind us further to you.
Why, man, he's a very devil; I have not seen such a
Only she comes too short: that I profess
Of health and living now begins to mend,
As from a blushing handmaid, to his highness;
If the sea's stomach be o'ercharged with gold,
Fall'n into taint: which to believe of her,
Ay, Proteus, but that life is alter'd now:
Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
That want no ear but yours.
Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself
velvet. Thou art the list.
Why or for what these nobles were committed
And so they are: alas, that they are so;
Who now are here, taking their leaves of me,
They are close delations, working from the heart
A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion,
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
This mercy shows we'll joy in such a son:
Yes, Warwick, Edward dares, and leads the way.
Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in every
Fie, what an indirect and peevish course
Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,
conceits shall govern.
These herblets shall, which we upon you strew.
Should yet say 'Sir, no going.' Verily,
To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage;
Nay, but hear me.
By such despair, I should accuse myself.
I care not for thy sword; I'll make thee known,
His discontents are unremoveably
That you shall stifle in your own report
When went there by an age, since the great flood,
An angry arm against His minister.
Bastards and all.
Took odds to combat a poor famish'd man.
Some of these articles; and out they shall.
Is not this just? for I shall sutler be
honest: now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some
ANTIPHOLUS
league between my good man and he! Is your wife at
Alack, the king!
Which finds it an inforced pilgrimage.
Against proud Somerset and William Pole,
That doth renew swifter than blood decays!
When service should in my old limbs lie lame
A royal nobleness: I must embrace thee:
Most gentle and most valiant Hector, welcome:
Venice, thou wilt quake for this shortly.
The thrifty hire I saved under your father,
That I'll straight do; and, knowing myself again,
From a full-flowing stomach. General,
not you chiefly belong to my heart? I have told
'Tis midnight, Charles;
About his neck, Bohemia: who, if I
Melted as the snow, seems to me now
What counsel give you in this weighty cause?
There, my lord.
Spied a blossom passing fair
forgotten what the inside of a church is made of, I
Thou didst usurp my place, and dost thou not
If in his grave he rest, we'll find him there;
Choler does kill me that thou art alive;
And all for use of that which is mine own.
Tester I'll have in pouch when thou shalt lack,
thy lungs military: art thou there? it is thine
A cur, sir.
not proved worthy a blackberry: they set me up, in
He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
Cast thousand beams upon me, like the sun?
In this uncivil and thou unjust extent
I swear to do this, though a present death
We'll be before our welcome.
Help, help! Call help.
Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think,
[To FERDINAND and MIRANDA]  Give me your hands:
If it might please ye,--
Ill not pay a denier. What, will you make a younker
Like a true friar. More reasons for this action
Enter Nurse and PETER
With both the humours, I:
ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress, or any
Enter KING RICHARD III in arms, with NORFOLK, SURREY, and others
And like a civil war set'st oath to oath,
Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower;
Speak on; but be not over-tedious.
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CROMWELL
When Laban and himself were compromised
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,
Hark, hark! one knocks: Portia, go in awhile;
I pray you, rise; rise, Egypt.
Condition!
Your honour hath no shriving work in hand.
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
Tut, man, I mean thou'lt lose the flood, and, in
To sing a song that old was sung,
But thou preferr'st thy life before thine honour:
My master and his man are both broke loose,
Were you a woman, as the rest goes even,
One of the greatest in the Christian world
'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
Sith yet there is a credence in my heart,
De nails, madame.
And I myself secure in grace and favour.
I'll have her; but I will not keep her long.
You do advance your cunning more and more.
Talk like the vulgar sort of market men
Inquire me out some mean-born gentleman,
It can do me no damage;' adding further,
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
dost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in?
'Tis time to speak; my pains are quite forgot.
And I will set this foot of mine as far
Perchance the cardinal cannot make your peace;
On his follies: never did I hear
have no strength in measure, yet a reasonable
Of secret on her person, that he could not
Whose better issue in the war, from Italy,
But that it eats our victuals, I should think
melancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn him
And leave me to this miserable death:
Why are we met in council?
Besides, they are our outward consciences,
Madam, you have bereft me of all words,
Speaking lower
Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you?
Enter ROBIN
Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
And that which spites me more than all these wants,
Hath twice done salutation to the morn;
Which I have given to you?
Pray, sir, be patient: 'tis as much impossible--
Attend me, then: I went to Antioch,
Married to your good service, stay till death:
I shall no more to sea, to sea,
Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
To any one, nor taken sustenance
O Fates, come, come,
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell;
How like a younker or a prodigal
will have the heart of him, if he forfeit; for, were
have him now,--and there,--and there again, and there.
As you must needs, for you all cried 'Go, go,'--
O, yes; if any hour meet a sergeant, a' turns back for
Till his lost child be found? which that it shall,
Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,
The quintessence of every sprite
Exit Messenger
in his youth an inland man; one that knew courtship
Fall'n in the practise of a damned slave,
it harder for our mistress to devise imposition
the shoulder, and called Adam.
But must condemn it now. Desist, and drink.
To see great Hercules whipping a gig,
She hears herself.
Exeunt
He does indeed;
Traverse! go, provide thy money. We will have more
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale
love believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to
Yearly will I do this rite.
But with all brief and plain conveniency
Have patience, I beseech.
And this was it I gave him, being abed.
I humbly thank you:
See! Iachimo!
Ay, good my lord. Why should you say Cressida? no,
Go charge Agrippa
Like an unseasonable stormy day,
As patches set upon a little breach
And never noted in him any study,
Buckingham, I prithee, pardon me,
What is she but a foul contending rebel
O cruel, irreligious piety!
Lies down
Hercules' labours; which is, to bring Signior
Mistress Mary, if you prized my lady's favour at any
eat three: if thou wert the fox, the lion would
Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
To make me fight at land!
Accursed tower! accursed fatal hand
With many more confederates, are in arms.
Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and JAQUES
their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he
off, and you are now sailed into the north of my
Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne!
And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
Thou art a proud traitor, priest.
Trust me, I take him for the better dog.
'Item: She will often praise her liquor.'
Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
Thrives in our idleness.
I have got strength of limit. Now, my liege,
in their hearts, that for their tongues to be
And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you
Re-enter BOULT
But let it rest. Now, Licio, to you:
Enter MENENIUS with the two Tribunes of the people, SICINIUS and BRUTUS.
And hugg'd me in his arm, and kindly kiss'd my cheek;
But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
[Aside to CLEOPATRA]  'Tis one of those odd
I mean, his conversation with Shore's wife,
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
Well worth a poor man's taking: fairies and gods
Enter a Servant
I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly;
Then I repent not.
That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands:
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Not so hot, good sir:
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.
This is too much;
in lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but this:
But for your health and your digestion sake,
And tell 's a tale.
not what 'twas to be beaten till lately. Follow
Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! his
A generation of still-breeding thoughts,
In love the heavens themselves do guide the state;
Exeunt all but Adriana, Luciana, Officer and Courtezan
old ling and our Isbels o' the country are nothing
Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle:
From high to low throughout, that whoso please
Behold, as may unworthiness define,
For depravation, to square the general sex
crammed with grain; make edicts for usury, to
Make tigers tame and huge leviathans
Who is too good to pity thee.
Good even, Audrey.
Which has no need of you; be gone:
What, hast thou dined? The tailor stays thy leisure,
me?
Their kingdom's loss, my woful banishment,
Importing the surrender of those lands
But more when envy breeds unkind division;
all my fame for a pot of ale and safety.
IAGO from behind wounds CASSIO in the leg, and exit
Go, go, be gone, to save your ship from wreck,
Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
For that I heard the clink and fall of swords,
In state of health thou say'st; and thou say'st free.
Two women placed together makes cold weather:
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Ay, where thou darest
As if but now they waxed pale for woe:
Hath doubtfully pronounced thy throat shall cut,
As begging hermits in their holy prayers:
I am your lordship's.
For thy solicitor shall rather die
That would reduce these bloody days again,
If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not.
Je pense que vous etes gentilhomme de bonne qualite.
Uncle, how now!
He lies not like the living. O my heart!
You?
bounty to sing happiness to him. I will tell you a
With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn. I
answered her; my very visor began to assume life and
man i' the moon?
You do climb up it now: look, how we labour.
From Dis's waggon! daffodils,
We know him for no less, though we are but strangers
At Antium lives he?
I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is
That sir which serves and seeks for gain,
souviendrai. Les doigts? je pense qu'ils sont
A ring; stand round.
So in the Lethe of thy angry soul
And thou with all pleased, that hast all achieved!
In faith, she's too curst.
The stronger part of it by her own letters, which
Was levied in the body of a land.
Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
Good sir, no more; these are unsightly tricks:
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
Says that you savour too much of your youth,
What ill request did Brutus make to thee?
Why sir, how do you bear with me?
Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,
Re-enter RODERIGO
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root
And will by twos and threes at several posterns
The Dauphin Charles is crowned king of Rheims;
Whom after under the confession's seal
Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester,
'Twixt amorous and villanous. Being thus quench'd
Answer to us.
Peace!
Full of dear guiltiness; and therefore this:
DON
the camomile, the more it is trodden on the faster
And meeting him will tell him that my lady
And will not any way dishonour me.
'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false
Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
and, having flown over many knavish professions, he
Set roaring war: to the dread rattling thunder
By my troth, 's not so good; and I warrant your
speak in a monstrous little voice. 'Thisne,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
unless it be to laugh at me.
In kissing, do you render or receive?
The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,
Less valiant than the virgin in the night
As he stood by whilst I, his forlorn duchess,
Becomes more mock'd than fear'd; so our decrees,
thou wouldst sin the faster. Thou givest so long,
We are tougher, brother,
The breath of worldly men cannot depose
Myself condemned and myself excused.
I am so sorry for my trespass made
The good old man would fain that all were well,
Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
moved my lord on his behalf, and hope all will be well.
As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear
shoes in the grime of it.
hath him, and that soundly.
The waters swell before a boisterous storm.
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
Sir, it is three days since I saw the prince. What
Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead;
And all the conduits of my blood froze up,
Behind the tuft of pines I met them; never
True, true; and now you will be my purgation and let me loose.
Ay, I think my cousin meant well.
I dare lay any money 'twill be nothing yet.
Our business is not unknown to the senate; they have
My noble queen, let former grudges pass,
To see her women? any of them? Emilia?
Nay, he struck so plainly, I could too well feel his
I'll rest betide the chamber where thou liest!
For there was never yet fair woman but she made
I cannot read them now.
Yond towers, whose wanton tops do buss the clouds,
This dream is all amiss interpreted;
All seeing heaven, what a world is this!
They wrestle
That on the unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes,
To stand the push and enmity of those
She that would alter services with thee,
put the moon in his pocket, we will pay him tribute
ACT II
Like to a little kingdom, suffers then
How your state stands i' the world, with the whole world?
With all good speed at Plashy visit me.
Let not our ships and number of our men
He was a king bless'd of the King of kings.
News, my good lord, from Rome.
I am an humble suitor to your virtues;
In measureless content.
Were slily crept into his human powers
by this means
Iden, farewell, and be proud of thy victory. Tell
When every feather sticks in his own wing,
Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.
To eat us hungerly, and when they are full,
Nor would we deign him burial of his men
And all for her; a plague upon her!
Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy,
And by good fortune I have lighted well
No more, great empress; Bassianus comes:
A monk o' the Chartreux.
So come my soul to bliss, as I speak true;
carelessly,
He purposeth to Athens: whither, with what haste
'Keep it, my Pericles; it hath been a shield
Enter the Ghost of LADY ANNE
And show itself, attire me how I can.
Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast,
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
God give him joy!
It is not possible, it cannot be,
Nay, a' rubs himself with civet: can you smell him
My wife's a hobby-horse, deserves a name
A single voice; and that not pass'd me but
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
Is not the king's name twenty thousand names?
the prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my
Run, run, O, run!
There's a trim rabble let in: are all these
Of the wars' surfeits, to go rove with one
store the world they played for.
Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some
No, madam.
And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
Got 'tween asleep and wake? Well, then,
Nor God, nor I, delights in perjured men.
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
A token from her daughter, my fair love,
That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.
take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to the court.
purse when he looks so merrily.
planetary influence; and all that we are evil in,
thee, Kate:
In private will I talk with thee apart.
And when I start, the envious people laugh
the blow; unless it swell past hiding, and then it's
Nay, we will slink away in supper-time,
Putting on SIR HUMPHREY'S brigandine
Comes to the entertainer--
Well, sir, there rest in your foolery. Is there any
of that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your
They say he yesterday coped Hector in the battle and
Gentlemen all,--alas, what shall I say?
Their bodies to the lust of English youth
The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor,
Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't
And telling me the sovereign'st thing on earth
In the poison'd entrails throw.
As doth thy face through tears of mine give light;
It fails not yet, but flourishes in thee
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
While night's black agents to their preys do rouse.
Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE and GURNEY
Take honour from me, and my life is done:
Marry, thou dost wrong me; thou dissembler, thou:--
Give the all-hail to thee and cry 'Be blest
Look to the queen there, ho!
I therein do forget.
And yours of Helena to me bequeath,
Life and death! I am ashamed
my case. The spite of man prevaileth against me. O
request, I can tell you.
Assuredly you know me.
my intelligence is true; my jealousy is reasonable.
There's the point.
[Awaking]  What angel wakes me from my flowery bed?
The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit
All men but Proteus.
Nay, we must longer kneel: I am a suitor.
that I should quickly have a new father.
Repair to Pompey's porch, where you shall find us.
But, ass, I'll take that burthen from your back,
Whiles his most mighty father on a hill
Nay, then, he is a conjurer.
And show the best of our delights:
A fall off of a tree.
Do what they would; are sorry--you are honourable,--
Must wear the print of his remembrance out,
His letters bear his mind, not I, my lord.
Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,
considered, as too much I cannot, to be more
Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
She's too hard for you at pricks, sir: challenge her to bowl.
And straight disclaim their tongues? What are
Now have I paid my vow unto his soul;
And bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame.
It shall be so.
'Tis brief, my lord.
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go; and
Is't come to this?
Donalbain.
Heaven comfort her!
Wont, through a secret grate of iron bars
The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind;
So do I too, if it be not too much: brings a'
I like your silence, it the more shows off
That ever death should let life bear his name,
shalt be!' This have I thought good to deliver
If I break faith, this word shall speak for me;
Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
To LUCENTIO
Exeunt
An unkind breach: but you shall make all well.
Hastings, and Edward's children, Rivers, Grey,
So shall I, love; and so, I pray, be you:
'Tis known already that I am possess'd
And follow to thine answer.
To Milan let me hear from thee by letters
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
There's not a man I meet but doth salute me
Let him be brought into the orchard here.
Have any way your good deserts forgot,
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
With that recognizance and pledge of love
Boult!
A bastard son of Priam's.
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
Where is Polonius?
Speaks nobly of her.
Salutes ye all; this night he dedicates
The mariners all under hatches stow'd;
And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop!
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
Your grace, we think, should soonest know his mind.
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
My lord--
excuse. Never excuse; for when the players are all
And many unrough youths that even now
What dost thou say?
quarrels you may say he is wise; for either he
I shall do't.
And further, I have learn'd,
Nought's had, all's spent,
Which signify what hate they bear their emperor
Coming forward
Cousin, there's fall'n between him and my lord
Exeunt severally
And entertain some score or two of tailors,
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding-day:
As morning roses newly wash'd with dew:
Tell him, toward Swinstead, to the abbey there.
bold as to tell you I know the disciplines of war;
See Brutus at his house: three parts of him
The least a death to nature.
swimmer, Troilus the first employer of panders, and
And thus I took the vantage of those few,
To be revenged on him that slew my husband.
Belike 'tis but a rumour. Good night to you.
And stands upon the honour of his birth,
Not to-night, good Iago: I have very poor and
A pair so famous. High events as these
Have you importuned her to such a purpose?
Which, once discern'd, shows that her meaning is,
Here comes lean Jack, here comes bare-bone.
We will untread the steps of damned flight,
Well, gaoler, on. Pray God, Bassanio come
It were well
Good morrow to your lordship.
to the determination of justice: yet had he framed
Your aery buildeth in our aery's nest.
With him is Gratiano gone along;
Nor never look upon each other's face;
Ay, but he's dead: off with the traitor's head,
From Perigenia, whom he ravished?
Is come from Caesar; therefore hear it, Antony.
How young Leander cross'd the Hellespont.
Let thy fair wisdom, not thy passion, sway
For this poor furniture and mean array.
Such as will enter at a lady's ear
nayword, and make him a common recreation, do not
Ay, sir, from one Monsieur Biron, one of the strange
I loved you dearly, would you believe my oaths,
And then I comes behind.
We'll once more hear Orsino's embassy.
rightful heir to the crown?
You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir?
I would to heaven he were!
Exeunt
SCENE III. The palace.
Than where castles mounted stand.'
Unloading of his mules.
Nicanor? no.
I know not what to say.
When Proteus cannot love where he's beloved.
O, let him marry her.
With others whom the rigor of our state
What's he?
Shake he his weapon at us and pass by.
Ye see, I drink the water of mine eyes.
I would exult, man: you know, he brought me out o'
She thinks not so; peruse this writing else.
And therefore do we what we are commanded.
For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
And with what wing the staniel cheques at it!
Who grieves much for your weakness, and by me
If old sir Robert did beget us both
Revengingly enfeebles me; or could this carl,
lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lief
Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
Than we to stretch it out.
and this they con perfectly in the phrase of war,
Guilty, my lord, guilty! I confess, I confess.
Of tyranny and will ignoble make you,
And here comes Claudio's pardon.
Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothing
Exit
Which warp'd the line of every other favour;
O, tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks,
mail, sir: O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain! no
Sweet, rouse yourself; and the weak wanton Cupid
Aside
You speak not as you think: it cannot be.
For know, my love, as easy mayest thou fall
Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
No.
And do invite you to my sister's view,
Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
I am for the air; this night I'll spend
That were a jest indeed! they have not so little
My leash unwillingly.
Breaking his oath and resolution like
Enter Nurse and PETER
a ship of rich lading wrecked on the narrow seas;
Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.
This dilatory sloth and tricks of Rome.
and have a desire, as my father shall specify--
As you commanded me.
you of this man that takes me for the general? He's
That they lack; for if their heads had any
That she reserves it evermore about her
I have a thousand spirits in one breast,
Had I thy youth and cause, I would not stay.
For she his hairy temples then had rounded
That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
And with her personage, her tall personage,
That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
Antiochus, I thank thee, who hath taught
O master, master, I have watch'd so long
In suffering thus thy brother to be slaughter'd,
I do conceive.
there rooted betwixt them then such an affection,
But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
He writes me here, that inward sickness--
What, no attendance? no regard? no duty?
Swarming with caterpillars?
For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear
All time of pause, rudely beguiles our lips
Than is your majesty: there's not, I think, a subject
England all Olivers and Rowlands bred,
But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
He proved best man i' the field, and for his meed
to a whipping, if you were but bound to't.
Sirs, what's o'clock?
Let's ha't, good Grumio.
The statue of her mother.
I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
Look, where the holy legate comes apace,
Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard.
When I am sure you hate me with your hearts.
This seen, Orlando did approach the man
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me,
Power as he was a counsellor to try him,
What of him? he is
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
Enter a Messenger
Bid the music leave,
SCENE I. Cyprus. Before the castle.
I, measuring his affections by my own,
She is thy enemy, and I thy friend:
Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
She will indite him to some supper.
In the protection of his son, her brother,
I'faith, sir, you shall never need to fear:
Ignomy in ransom and free pardon
We wait for certain money here, sir.
A still and quiet conscience. The king has cured me,
Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
Where I have lived at honest freedom, paid
Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament
with't, keep it close: home, home, the next way.
And now about the cauldron sing,
Give dreadful note of preparation:
With them, upon her knees, her humble self;
Who doth permit the base contagious clouds
Which was when I perceived thee--that thou camest
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Then, with your will, go on;
The Governor and some Citizens on the walls; the English forces below. Enter KING HENRY and his train
And make us lose the good we oft might win
'Tis here!
You are Grand-jurors, are ye? we'll jure ye, 'faith.
Ipswich and Oxford! one of which fell with him,
Too well what love women to men may owe:
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
And where's your lesson, then? Boy, what say you?
I have news to tell you: come, come, give me your hand.
Mark, how they whisper: urge them while their souls
When I shall see this gentleman, thy speeches
Is now in durance, at Malvolio's suit,
Fronting the sun, receives and renders back
And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
That did disrobe the lion of that robe!
desires to speak with you both.
you should enter, if your trade be to her.
That slew himself; and wise Laertes' son
Gives the warrant
He thinks me now incapable; confederates--
Once more to look on him.
My lord, it were your duty to forbear.
Let it alone. Come, I'll go in with you.
--Command silence.
What dost thou say, Iago?
RICHARD
His countenance likes me not.
at home, I was in a better place: but travellers
ANTIPHOLUS
not stay for him to kill him? have I not, at de place
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth
For us, and for our tragedy,
I do say thou art quick in answers: thou heatest my blood.
And wrinkled deep in time? Broad-fronted Caesar,
Andronicus, would thou wert shipp'd to hell,
Are all things fitting for that royal time?
Where were you bred?
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
Exit
I shall beseech him to befriend himself.
Since I have your good leave to go away,
As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy;
My hat to a halfpenny, Pompey proves the best Worthy.
Long after this, when Henry the Fifth,
How did he take it? who did taste to him?
By sea and land I'll fight: or I will live,
God save the king! God save the king!
Their noise be our instruction. Ladders, ho!
O, beware, my lord, of jealousy;
There is a Frenchman his companion, one
Must fall out with men too: what the declined is
Aside to CARDINAL
Knocks
What I have done being young, or what would do
Is now in England, ransacking the church,
I am too blunt and saucy: here's my knee:
As thou unworthy to be call'd her servant.
Steps in to Cassio, and entreats his pause:
Look, when I serve him so, he takes it ill.
so near with their lips that their breaths embraced
Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
When your young nephew Titus lost his leg:
Or how stolen from the dead.
cozen-germans that has cozened all the hosts of
SCENE II. Another part of the wood.
Exeunt LEONATO and Messenger
Though I do hate him as I do hell-pains.
And kingly government of this your land,
Lord Thaliard from Antiochus is welcome.
We go wrong, we go wrong.
Some airy devil hovers in the sky
But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
And poise the cause in justice' equal scales,
Let's speak To him.
The Earl of Westmoreland, seven thousand strong,
On unreprievable condemned blood.
Fie, that you'll say so! he plays o' the
Might but redeem the passage of your age!
Of dire combustion and confused events
And tried his inclination; from him pluck'd
Let us hear, sweet Bottom.
March to assault thy country than to tread--
'Tis so, I am an ass; else it could never be
What, to perverseness? you uncivil lady,
but now promise, Kate, you will endeavour for your
And would not harm me.
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
Enter CHARLES, BURGUNDY, ALENCON, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, REIGNIER, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
Were not so rich a jewel. Thou wast a soldier
She was in love, and he she loved proved mad
Sound them, it doth become the mouth as well;
In my profession? Knighthoods and honours, borne
By holy marriage: when and where and how
I am no great Nebuchadnezzar, sir; I have not much
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO, ESCALUS, Lords and Attendants
Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so;
Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
cannot be that Desdemona should long continue her
you too, for here comes one in haste.
Exeunt
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you
Make instruments to plague us:
Do me but right, and you must all confess
I have cried her almost to the number of her hairs;
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Would I propose to achieve her whom I love.
You so remain.
Papers of state he sent me to peruse,
By thrusting out a torch from yonder tower;
To the Fool
from his judge, but most willingly humbles himself
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
When gouty keepers of thee cannot stand.
My father as he slept, I had done't.
Myself, a prince by fortune of my birth,
And but the backs of Britons seen, all flying
For God he knows, and you may partly see,
I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
down; I come to speak with her, indeed.
Poor Clarence, by thy guile betrayed to death!
And shall it in more shame be further spoken,
That's the worst tidings that I hear of yet.
O Peter, thou hast prevailed in right!
Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.
Who died and left a female heir,
Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one:
See, and then speak yourselves.
I tell thee,
grief; in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and
Startles mine eyes, and makes me more amazed
And by that destiny to perform an act
SCENE II. A Street.
Ho, Helicanus!
More than I do?--except I be provoked.
That men of your nobility and power
thou learn a prayer without book. Thou canst strike,
word more,--
Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.
Who Pyramus presented, in their sport
And that I love him not as I was wont.
Lucilius' Servant	Not yet.
Why, how know you that I am in love?
That answer might have become Apemantus.
Enter a Goth, leading AARON with his Child in his arms
Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
So cunning and so young is wonderful.
Good my lord, be quiet.
he esteems himself happy that he hath fallen into
May take off some extremity, which to read
may we barricado it against him?
Within a loathsome dungeon, there to pine,
Go, John, go inquire for my master; I doubt
To furnish us.
To any living creature: believe me, la,
I love and hate her: for she's fair and royal,
And, as I further have to understand,
Lord of York's armour.
To be mine own attorney in this case.
Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
Villanous whore!
Or, if not so, until the sun be set:
Which didst unworthy slaughter upon others.
I would not for half Troy have you seen here.
The sons of York, thy betters in their birth,
Pray, uncle Gloucester, mitigate this strife.
counsellor; if you can command these elements to
This is not well, my lord, this is not well.
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
to reserve. But this is from my commission: I will
I'll wait upon your honour.
To bear such idleness so near the heart
He talks of wood: it is some carpenter.
I tell you, younglings, not Enceladus,
speech, enter into that brake: and so every one
But I will rule both her, the king and realm.
Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
of his leg, the manner of his gait, the expressure
And counsel him to fight against his passion.
But thou didst kill my children.
So rarely kind, are as interpreters
Exeunt KING OF FRANCE and CORDELIA
When he intendeth to become the field:
Melt and lament for her.
Then may I set the world on wheels, when she can
There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in
And think it but a minute spent in sport.
Than words can witness, or your thoughts can guess.
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
And in a moment makes them desolate.
When shall we hear from him?
of the forest and to couple us.
intrusion; for they say, if money go before, all
Exeunt
both the office of God and the devil? One brings
hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle, never
But not the form of what he should attend.
And manage it against despairing thoughts.
I, that I was
I have a servant comes with me along,
Give me your hand and let me feel your pulse.
Why,  the honest men.
For shame, my lord of Winchester, relent!
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
so much as this fact comes to?
For bringing wood in slowly. I'll fall flat;
fellowship: I had as lief have a reed that will do
I was once before him for getting a wench with child.
[Reads]  'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind,
Against the blood that thou hast married?
If ancient sorrow be most reverend,
We'll teach you--
Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
Exit Gentleman
Exeunt Goths, with AARON. Flourish within
Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
Or else thou art suborn'd against his honour
by the will of a dead father. Is it not hard,
himself on the forehead, crying, 'Peer out, peer
Sons, let it be your charge, as it is ours,
'tis not convenient you should be cozened. Fare you well.
A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,
thee often, and I re-tell thee again and again, I
I come to tell you things sith then befall'n.
And I do haunt thee in the battle thus
That I have wept a hundred several times.
'Tis true:
What is your study?
Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
Exeunt
Who hath abandoned her holy groves
Keeping some gold
He waxes desperate with imagination.
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
years in doing and now newly performed by that rare
Did march three Frenchmen. Yet, forgive me, God,
Whose great decision hath much blood let forth
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
[Aside]  Well, I could reply:
little ones: I can compare our rich misers to
Re-enter to CARDINAL WOLSEY, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK, SURREY, and the Chamberlain
By that and all the rites of knighthood else,
mistress is a respected woman.
Reverend sir,
That ever did contain a thing of worth.
A goodly medicine for my aching bones! O world!
Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, he
I am glad at soul I have no other child:
We are inforced to farm our royal realm;
Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun:
My lord, I cannot.
A kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit
And target. Still he mends;
her reputation, her marriage-vow, and a thousand
Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
mum, you are he: graces will appear, and there's an
Unto the body of a dismal yew,
The Dauphin longs for morning.
I would not yield to be your house's guest;
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
No, let me not.
let ten thousand devils come against me, and give me
It cannot be; it is impossible:
given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan
Exit
Than Bargulus the strong Illyrian pirate.
Induce you to the question on't? or ever
die.
I would not by my will have troubled you;
Until thy head be circled with the same.
Dear amity and everlasting love.
water; and give him another hope, to betray him to
I wish you all joy of the worm.
Play the recanter, feeling in itself
He hath a stern look, but a gentle heart:
Yea, and much more: but I was born so high,
And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks
Under your pardon. You must note beside,
had rather go with sir priest than sir knight: I
Noise within
I might have told hereafter.
If I can fasten but one cup upon him,
It bears an angry tenor: pardon me:
more stubborn and boisterous expedition.
Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fetch'd
A dance
His grace looks cheerfully and smooth to-day;
For womanish it is to be from thence.
The honourable blood of Lancaster,
If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
cries out 'No more;' reconciles them to his
That you unfold to me, yourself, your half,
Nor send you out o' the way?
safety: you have been a great thief by sea.
And I dare well maintain it with my life,
Are his wits safe? is he not light of brain?
I'll first direct my men what they shall do with the
Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester,
I shall as famous be by this exploit
Towards Phoebus' lodging: such a wagoner
report fort, but that he pays himself with being proud.
In argument of praise, or to the worth
That like a lion foster'd up at hand,
soul is his own. Therefore should every soldier in
'Tis thine they give away, and not their own.
So true, so just, and now so comfortable?
We would so, and then go a bat-fowling.
by a gentleman his companion.
shepherd deliver the manner how he found it:
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
A twelvemonth! well; befall what will befall,
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
To wail the tide, as her mother doth.
There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
country, simple though I stand here.
If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly:
ANTIPHOLUS
Were but my trials of thy love and thou
A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say
Re-enter MARIA
No, God forbid that I should wish them sever'd
Your father's heir must have your father's land.
upon him, for my business seethes.
He will deserve more.
The pitfall nor the gin.
He durst not sit there, had your father lived.
Helena, adieu:
Well said, my lord! well, you say so in fits.
Thisbe runs off
Is not this buckled well?
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
Content. 'Tis strange.
affection, that I should win what you would enjoy?
High-witted Tamora to gloze with all:
SCENE II. The palace.
were to say more than I know. That he is old, the
That he hath left part of his grief with me,
the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat
The rather for I now must make you know
son, and am going with Sir Proteus to the Imperial's
But, like a cloistress, she will veiled walk
that you frame the season for your own harvest.
As freely, son, as God did give her me.
choose me a husband. O me, the word 'choose!' I may
A half-faced groat five hundred pound a year!
They are up already, and call for eggs and butter;
Expecting ever when some envious surge
Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
Let but your honour know,
And give them repetition to the life.
I banish her my bed and company
Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here.
O, what a time have you chose out, brave Caius,
And poor in worth! Now shall we see to-morrow--
If it please me, madam, what then?
Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,
What courage, sir? God save you!
And kill me too.
Her beauty and the value of her dower,
Let me confirm my princely brother's greeting:
Framed in the prodigality of nature,
Well, do it, and be brief; I will walk by:
Hark, how our steeds for present service neigh!
And great affections wrestling in thy bosom
And when my uncle told me so, he wept,
Here comes little Robin.
And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
What guests were in her eyes; which parted thence,
O, if I could, what grief should I forget!
With hey, ho,  and c.
I cannot fight upon this argument;
Not enough barbarous, had not o'erboard thrown me
What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.
'Tis a noble Lepidus.
But he already is too insolent;
For I have ever verified my friends,
SCENE II. The sea-coast.
daughters before your faces: for me, I will make
Timon is dead, who hath outstretch'd his span:
Soldiers, sir.
Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep
I should not make so dear a show of zeal:
Will see his burial better than his life.
To equal him, I will make myself a knight presently.
How much in having, or without or in,
Therein the patient
Well, sweet queen. you are pleasant with me. But,
In thy condign praise.
And dreaming night will hide our joys no longer,
We would spend it in some words upon that business,
De hand. Et les doigts?
I'll leave you.
God I have as little patience as another man; and
makes her story true, even to the point of her
Their ragged curtains poorly are let loose,
But since correction lieth in those hands
A pound of flesh, to be by him cut off
To lead you to our court; vouchsafe it then.
I am a subject fit to jest withal,
And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch,
That fears him much; and my misgiving still
Sets all on hazard: and hither am I come
In sooth, I know not why I am so sad:
Myself in counsel, his competitor.
He blushes, and 'tis it:
Or that or any place that harbours men.
Here comes his servant: how now, Catesby,
By what yourself too late have spoke and done.
adventure would counsel you to a more equal
Sir, for a quart d'ecu he will sell the fee-simple
Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
So would I,--as good a trick as ever hangman served thief.
Advise me where I may have such a ladder.
Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep
him; and a third drowns him.
Than of his outward show; which, God he knows,
Enter MIRANDA; and PROSPERO at a distance, unseen
Enter LORD BERKELEY
I say, by sorcery he got this isle;
Till Saturninus be Rome's emperor.
Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper;
Follow such creatures. That you may, fair lady,
Rests by you only to be qualified:
KING RICHARD III starts out of his dream
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
Enter AARON
And left me to a bootless inquisition,
which none must know but the king; and which he
A show of Eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand; GHOST OF BANQUO following
Woe above woe! grief more than common grief!
Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret,
And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand.
Reads
Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
Say, how is that?
Must have inventions to delight the taste,
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, BLANCH, the BASTARD, Lords, and forces
the approach of day.
But, sir, sir,
has a familiar under his tongue; he speaks not o'
Why, for that too.
I will not love myself. Do you not love me?
In manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue
With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a
Love, love, nothing but love, still more!
Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
That nothing sung but death to us and ours:
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
What?
Re-quicken'd what in flesh was fatigate,
And answer, thanks: I duly am inform'd
Into a great estate: when he was poor,
Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
Well then, your bond; and let me see; but hear you;
give her two.
I would not, Cassius; yet I love him well.
When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt,
And here, I hope, is none that envies it.
Enter KING JOHN, KING PHILLIP, LEWIS, BLANCH, QUEEN ELINOR, the BASTARD, AUSTRIA, and Attendants
Pool! Sir Pool! lord!
Swear, if thou darest.
What I have seen and known. You shall observe him,
We charge you, in God's name, and the king's,
And he shall say you are not well to-day:
You are a royal one, and we obey you.
Our valour is to chase what flies; our cage
Flourish. Alarums
upon no trail, never trust me when I open again.
Sir, I confess the wench.
I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
is he inconstant, sir, in his favours?
Wilt thou not speak to me?
To use one language in each several clime
Where shall it find a harbour in the earth?
His pettish lunes, his ebbs, his flows, as if
It is not so. Ask them how many inches
And run a tilt at death within a chair?
'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
O, what a scandal is it to our crown,
Go with your impositions, I am yours
A sly and constant knave,
How long hast thou been blind?
ne'er a tongue in my head. Well, if any man in
Well, now can I make any Joan a lady.
Did need an oath; when every drop of blood
Look for no less than death.
Revenge it, as you love your mother's life,
That man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man,
Fly, my lord, fly.
It is your uncle.
That come to gather money for their corn.
We with our travels will endeavour us.
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms:
To punish them; although not done, but meant.
That goddess blind,
Did point you to buy them, along as you pass'd:
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
O, that it were as like as it is true!
The trumpet sounds: be mask'd; the maskers come.
their barks; hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies
Fear not my truth: the moral of my wit
'Hath a dog money? is it possible
So dear in heart, not to deny her that
So, so; now sit: and look you eat no more
met but they looked, no sooner looked but they
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
Born in a tempest, when my mother died,
court, and they are going to meet him.
Rich pearls upon thee.
The king shall know it, and, no doubt, shall thank you.
A better wife, let him in nought be trusted,
that the duchies of Anjou and Maine shall be
Could turn so much the constitution
To my proceedings, if, with pure heart's love,
Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
I will appeach the villain.
I do not think he fears death.
Bore the commission of my place and person;
Well, I perceive I must be fain to bear with you.
Lysander! speak again:
Like doth quit like, and MEASURE still FOR MEASURE.
For such an end thou seek'st,--as base as strange.
I wonder at this haste; that I must wed
To see the statue of our queen: your gallery
Do use to chant it: it is silly sooth,
It shall be said, his judgment ruled our hands;
What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food?
thee for't.
That this same child of honour and renown,
Prithee, call Gardiner to me, my new secretary:
go one way or other: howsoever, he shall pay for me
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
Enter Clown and FABIAN
Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
For every graff would send a caterpillar,
you and shine through you like the water in an
save your word.
That so degenerate a strain as this
More than a little is by much too much.
And I in all unwillingness will go.
To prison with her! Shall we thus permit
Another, with his finger and his thumb,
At my petition; I beseech you, rather
the fat knight with the great belly-doublet: he
Good day, my lord. What, at your book so hard?
His second marriage shall be publish'd, and
I have inform'd his highness so at large
Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost
And in a captive chariot into Rouen
Subjects may challenge nothing of their sovereigns;
And by and by thy bosom shall partake
Of stirs abroad, I shall beseech you, sir,
RICHARD
a true man.
Friar, it cannot be.
These lies are like their father that begets them;
SCENE VII. Field of battle between the camps.
nativity to this instant, and have nothing at his
Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue extant?
Nay, then I cannot blame his cousin king,
But what of this? are we not all in love?
Re-enter AEdile, with Citizens
With conscience wide as hell, mowing like grass
SCENE VI. Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Come on then; down, and swear.
Give me any gage of thine, and I will wear it in my
gavest me,'twas a pennyworth, wast't not?
That framed him thus: time, with his fairer hand,
Not going from itself; but eye to eye opposed
Dost thou hear me, Hal?
By heaven, Hubert, I am almost ashamed
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
Lords, view these letters full of bad mischance.
When I was but your sister; I you brothers,
And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
Must we pursue, and I have found the path.
'Tis true: where is he, Denny?
He is an absolute master.
I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion:
And whatsoever you will employ me in,
Has censured him
Is my dear son with such sour company:
I am sorry for't, my lord.
And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage.
[Aside]  Now, by the gods, I do applaud his courage.
She gave me for my pains a world of sighs:
Why, see you not?
whose hand, she being now at hand, thou shalt soon
Now, as thou art a gentleman of blood,
Let me see.
I'll take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster
Give the word through.
pestiferous reports of men very nobly held, can
Chop off his head, man; somewhat we will do:
He hath not told us of the captain yet:
Thump! then see thou thump thy master well.
And hunger will enforce them to be more eager:
Would win some words of him.
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
Base men by his endowments are made great.
Endured all weathers.
Ah balmy breath, that dost almost persuade
It is offended.
Please it your grace, there is a messenger
But say, my lord, it were not register'd,
Madam, my thanks and prayers.
And, in the spiced Indian air, by night,
Exeunt
For these, these, tribunes, in the dust I write
If Timon stay at home. You three serve three usurers?
To go along with us; for as we think,
What canst thou wish thine enemy to be?
But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master's, I advise
Else I should tell him,--well, i' faith I should,
To LUCIUS
More bound to 's mother; yet here he lets me prate
at the door: shall I let them in?
thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will
Ay me, he'll find the young man here, and be mad!
Strives in his little world of man to out-scorn
His currish riddles sort not with this place.
Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!
Fie, fie upon her! she's able to freeze the god
This I'll report, dear lady.
Of will and judgment: how may I avoid,
That issue out of dust. Happy thou art not;
'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm
she? We are simple men; we do not know what's
Nay, be not angry; I am pleased again.
To employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen.
Grandam, we can; for my good uncle Gloucester
Unbuckling helms, fisting each other's throat,
if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made
Our scene is alter'd from a serious thing,
I'll have my kiss, sir. Lady, by your leave.
That like a father you will deal with him
It's past the size of dreaming: nature wants stuff
Thou wouldst have changed thy face for a name or thy
Make feasts, invite friends, and proclaim the banns;
Pray, good shepherd, what fair swain is this
As far from help as Limbo is from bliss!
I know thee not: thy name?
That's not amiss;
Let us go. Come;
To say you have seen a better.
Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
price they will.
hand. Why tribute? why should we pay tribute? If
Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die:
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
Wind, rain, and thunder, remember, earthly man
Exit, guarded
He will not say so.
Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee
Fie on him, Jezebel!
Another king! they grow like Hydra's heads:
What other pleasure can the world afford?
And I am constant. Titus Lartius, thou
Lends mettle to us all!
Not poison any further.
Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow
I'll in, to urge his hatred more to Clarence,
For ever and for ever shall be yours.
Might come to me again. Who's there?
Which overshades the mouth of that same pit
If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied.
By revolution lowering, does become
And now loud-howling wolves arouse the jades
Where every something, being blent together,
On Thursday next be married to this county.
I know it well. What must I call her?
Nice longing, slanders, mutability,
And so he comes, to rend his limbs asunder.
Exit
Demetrius and Egeus, go along:
For further satisfying, under her breast--
Why, how now, dame! whence grows this insolence?
An older and a better soldier none
Nay, I dare not swear it.
scourged by the sequent effects: love cools,
That plays thee music? Gentle knave, good night;
whether you were sent for, or no?
The second and the third, nine, and some five;
Remembers not these garments; nor I know not
Why did you suffer Iachimo,
If I have kill'd the issue of your womb,
Excellent falsehood!
The French king's sister. Heaven will one day open
To one his lands withheld, and to the other
Who gently would dissolve the bands of life,
O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
To sue, and be denied such common grace:
And neither way inclines.
inviting, which many my near occasions did urge me
Sure, these are but imaginary wiles
The king, that gave it.
Well, better wits have worn plain statute-caps.
Goes the king hence to-day?
Upon example; so the spirit is eased:
Then list to me:
Of Roman gentlemen, by the senate sent.
If thou art changed to aught, 'tis to an ass.
Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase;
other particularities.
One Hero died defiled, but I do live,
That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him,
Mock mothers from their sons, mock castles down;
a brown favour--for so 'tis, I must confess,--
Madam, there is alighted at your gate
Whom I have sent for to determine this,
Was a sweet creature: such a ring as this,
Remember, William; focative is caret.
strikes one.
No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.
Enter FLAVIUS and two Senators
I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures
Swallow them up. Now, by yond marble heaven,
Come pentecost as quickly as it will,
Spurn at his edict and fulfil a man's?
her dispraise those parts in me that you love with
the people.
my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge,
Shrunk to this little measure? Fare thee well.
As I am subtle, false and treacherous,
Rumour it abroad
Sir, I have brought my lord the archbishop,
Particular addition. from the bill
And buy it with your gold right suddenly.
Approach, my Ariel, come.
With pay and thanks, and let's away to London
FLORIZEL and AUTOLYCUS exchange garments
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Exit
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Prove me, my gracious sovereign.
Exit FASTOLFE
How now! do you hear this?
O, how this discord doth afflict my soul!
O sides, you are too tough;
I thought so then:--I'll kill myself for grief:--
As 'twere i' the father's person; kisses the hands
vouching--and upon warrant of bloody
I am glad
Which of your hands hath not defended Rome,
To one so meek, that mine own servant should
For the sound man. Death on my state! wherefore
No, heaven so speed me in my time to come!
sleep? Master Ford awake! awake, Master Ford!
Sir,
But I'll unto his majesty, and crave
An earnest advocate to plead for him.
How!
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
Achilles; Achilles is my lord; I am Patroclus'
O, fear me not.
Let's then determine
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
Sir Thomas Lovell, is the banquet ready
COUNTESS
First, let me tell you whom you have condemn'd:
How all occasions do inform against me,
Well, I will be so much a sinner, to be a
Even she.
Let's take the instant by the forward top;
That must needs be sport alone;
I heard him say, Brutus and Cassius
Which some did die to look on: and all this--
Did warrant me was likely.
am glad to hear it.
Antonio, gratify this gentleman,
Wanton as youthful goats, wild as young bulls.
How fares your majesty?
Further I say and further will maintain
To do the act that might the addition earn
Where lie my maiden weeds; by whose gentle help
that my lord your son was upon his return home, I
There is no better way than that they spoke of.
the finest part of pure love: we cannot call her
No, noble Titus, but entreat of thee
And, with her fellow maids is now upon
take an ill advantage of his assence: you are undone.
gentleman that danced with her told her she is much
If you did know to whom I gave the ring,
Dwelt by a churchyard: I will tell it softly;
Why, I could wish him to be my master, or rather, my mistress.
Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
Under this thick-grown brake we'll shroud ourselves;
Will answer as a law.
Into a rapture lets her baby cry
O, my good lords, and virtuous Henry,
Or banished fair England's territories,
Which, being cruel to the world, concluded
Go, by this token: rise, and lend thine ear:
The inward service of the mind and soul
Will laugh a siege to scorn: here let them lie
Exeunt
beard ere the black ones were there. To say 'ay'
With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
The close earth wombs or the profound sea hides
Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate
And, O you mortal engines, whose rude throats
Evils enow to darken all his goodness:
Caesar, 'tis strucken eight.
their wits with their wives: and then give them
be sworn, but love may transform me to an oyster; but
That flies her fortune when it follows her.
Husband!
Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent
With amplest entertainment: my free drift
And now Ventidius is wealthy too,
My foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast;
I do not know the matter: he is 'rested on the case.
interrupt the monster one word further, and,
foul hill, my master riding behind my mistress,--
A contagious breath.
Such factious emulations shall arise!
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
And if my legs were two such riding-rods,
Than you can put us to't.
More cruel to your good report than grateful
Yet who than he more mean?--to knit their souls,
taken a solemn leave: his lordship will next
Were it to call King Edward's widow sister,
DON
Of every fool, whose sense no more can feel
In lists, on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
Without me, as within me; not imagined, felt.
Which time shall bring to ripeness: she shall be--
I am so; I do love it better than laughing.
Fool, fool! thou whet'st a knife to kill thyself.
And thereupon give me your daughter.
For smoke and dusky vapours of the night,
But well, when I discourse of love and peace?
A friend! what friend? your name, I pray you, friend?
He's more secure to keep it shut than shown:
Amongst the fairest breeders of our clime:
I fear, too much.
'Item: She hath more hair than wit,'--
Enter TITUS below
Thou hast robb'd me of this deed: I would revenges,
with the buttock of the night than with the forehead
Divide in all with us.
Let's be calm.
Were there a serpent seen, with forked tongue,
Then yield, my lords; and here conclude with me
So in approof lives not his epitaph
But my outside to behold:
What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:
this day to look you.
Ned Poins and I will walk lower: if they 'scape
Should be deliver'd to his holiness
A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew!
But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt
And on his grave-stone this insculpture, which
By false intelligence, or wrong surmise,
Marry, sir, we say we are none.
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
I am aweary of this moon: would he would change!
That I, one Snout by name, present a wall;
such weak breath as this? No, you are deceived;
Armado o' th' one side,--O, a most dainty man!
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
How sad he looks! sure, he is much afflicted.
So be it; either to the uttermost,
desperate ones, for a madman owes 'em.
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
No mind that's honest
Who's there? come in: the wish deserves a welcome.
Please your highness,
See me in talk with thee.
And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle--
humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
The advantage of his absence took the king
And rather choose to hide them in a net
I will chide no breather in the world but myself,
And so break off; the day is almost spent:
for turning away, let summer bear it out.
Lord Longaville said, I came o'er his heart;
Enter JAQUES
Then 'tis like the breath of an unfee'd lawyer; you
Well, she looked yesternight fairer than ever I saw
How now! What's the matter?
Among the thorns and dangers of this world.
I look for an earthquake too, then.
Hath not old custom made this life more sweet
Say, Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
That skins the vice o' the top. Go to your bosom;
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
And yet but justice; for though
Of contradiction: being once chafed, he cannot
Much is your sorrow; mine ten times so much.
And you have slander'd nature in my form,
Mistress, we have.
But hear you, my lord.
My gracious lady, go;
This is a thing that Angelo knows not; for he this
Behold what honest clothes you send forth to bleaching!
Now could I, Casca, name to thee a man
knives to cut one another's throats?
Wherein? and what taxation? My lord cardinal,
Which he treads on at noon: but I do wonder
When think you that the sword goes up again?
If it mar nothing neither,
Yet fortune cannot recompense me better
On some apparent danger seen in him
I prithee, peace, good queen,
And Gabriel's pumps were all unpink'd i' the heel;
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind,
Or fruitful object be
But altogether lacks the abilities
Methought the billows spoke and told me of it;
That now is lying in Marseilles' road.
And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
excellent wit? can virtue hide itself? Go to,
come to my ward; for thence will not I to-day.
No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
Art thou gone too? all comfort go with thee!
As great as is thy master, greater, for
If not, the end of life cancels all bands;
Nay, he hath but a little beard.
Proposing with the prince and Claudio:
love-broker in the world can more prevail in man's
Enter KING RICHARD II, JOHN OF GAUNT, with other Nobles and Attendants
richly adorned with pearl, crowned. On each
And how desirous of our sight they are.
Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
Thy father, Earl of Cambridge, then derived
I will unfold some causes of your deaths.
no honest man dat shall come in my closet.
ill employment!
Out of the weak door of our fainting land.
That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks,
Dishonour not your mothers; now attest
quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I
Yea, wherefore should she not?
So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
Herein you war against your reputation
I do beseech you, madam, be content.
Wert thou the son of Jupiter and no more
Have lost my way for ever: I have a ship
Thus I conceive by him.
She that your worship loves?
catch cold on's feet.
To manage private and domestic quarrel,
I will incontinently drown myself.
Believe 't, my lord and I have made an end;
Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me
picked--with the devil's name!--out of my
Knows at what time to promise, when to pay.
since I forswore myself at primero. Well, if my
Madam, we are here.
Keep me in temper: I would not be mad!
Exeunt, marching
Poor pelting villages, sheep-cotes, and mills,
his majesty.
To you that know them not. This to my mother:
I pray the gods she may with all my heart!
scratched.
Which I, the factor for the rest, have done
Indeed, I have had earnest: but I cannot with
Are like to rot untasted. Go and tell him,
With what addition?
If thou dost find him tractable to us,
Be thus upbraided, chid and rated at,
there's a man, niece! Hem! Brave Troilus! the
O, 'tis the curse in love, and still approved,
SCENE III. OLIVIA'S house.
O'erborne their way, consumed with fire, and took
That he his high authority abused,
say, you cannot pass. Therefore, go back.
ACT II
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Thou never comest unto a happy birth,
It is not possible: you have not a man in all
There you shall find three of your argosies
this? Am I ridden with a Welsh goat too? shall I
And natural graces that extinguish art;
shall rob those men that we have already waylaid:
Farewell! a long farewell, to all my greatness!
Vouchsafe me, for my meed, but one fair look;
The Marshal of France, Monsieur La Far.
He draws Mark Antony out of the way.
Than terms can give thee out!
Even in the strength and height of injury!
Imagine howling: 'tis too horrible!
Exeunt
Most royal majesty,
hope you have no intent to turn husband, have you?
Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed,
And now he feasts, mousing the flesh of men,
Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from
I have been i' the market-place; and, sir,'tis fit
All for our vantage. Then, in God's name, march:
carry; therefore is she better than a jade. 'Item:
My woeful self up in a mourning house,
My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive
In such a night
Thaliard,
Or whether since he is advised by aught
Is able with the change to kill and cure.
be misprised: we will make it our suit to the duke
in whose name myself
My worthy lord, if ever Tamora
What were his marks?
I do affect the very ground, which is base, where
To do this is within the compass of man's wit: and
Rejoice, you men of Angiers, ring your bells:
Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes;
I would adventure for such merchandise.
Your royal ear abused. First, hath this woman
I turn you not away; but, like a master
To see inherited my very wishes
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow!
Then came each actor on his ass,--
Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and those
What thou hast said to me.
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
As venerable Nestor, hatch'd in silver,
And give to dust that is a little gilt
My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
Exeunt all except HAMLET
And bid her come hither.
Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale
Thou show'dst a subject's shine, I a true prince.
Thy spirits all of comfort! fare thee well.
A noise within
A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you: but I
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us:
Come, swear to that; kiss the book: I will furnish
Pardon me, Edward, I will make amends:
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
Ha, ha!
From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
We have noted it. Call her before us; for
You're sad, Signior Balthazar: pray God our cheer
Honour and plenteous safety--that you read
Hath held his current and defiled himself!
Buy thou the cottage, pasture and the flock,
Didst thou hear these verses?
Re-enter FLAVIUS, with the casket
To give their bed joy and prosperity.
That I enjoy, being the queen thereof.
mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to
Sir, believe this,
And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.
His barbed steeds to stables, and his heart
The devil their virtue tempts, and they tempt heaven.
it in the behalf of his friend: and I'll swear to
To cast thy wandering eyes on every stale,
Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
philosopher when he grows old, being so full of
Plantagenet, of thee and these thy sons,
None about Caesar.
Her private actions to your secrecy;
Now, by the holy mother of our Lord,
And damn'd be him that first cries, 'Hold, enough!'
That, in this case of justice, my accusers,
Madam, I am here.
Well, madam, we must take a short farewell,
Foul shame upon you! you have all moved mine.
proclamation. Let him be but testimonied in his own
Which sorrow is always towards ourselves, not heaven,
when our throats are cut, he may be ransomed, and we
Falstaffs, he shall not abuse Robert Shallow, esquire.
You're welcome, sir.
For these two heads do seem to speak to me,
And she whom mighty kingdoms court'sy to,
For to deny each article with oath
And when he please to make commotion,
Such gallant chiding: for, besides the groves,
Must not continue friends.
'Tis no matter: ne'er a fantastical knave of them
And when your honours mean to solemnize
Doth flourish the deceit. Come, let us go:
Without false vantage or base treachery.
John Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Earl of Surrey,
Which I have seen thee careful to observe,
A great man should decline? Nay, an you weep,
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
The Tower, the Tower.
Where is your ancient courage? you were used
Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
Bewray'd the faintness of my master's heart.
death: you know the course is common. If any thing
Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
Always excepted my dear Claudio.
Was this the face that faced so many follies,
That malice was a great and grievous sin;
There's reason he should be displeased at it.
Solemn and strange music
My better service, when my turpitude
No new device to beat this from his brains?
Beside, his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower,
It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
sovereign mistress of effects, throws a more safer
Draws, and is charmed from moving
Enter ALBANY
I, as I may--that which I would I cannot,--
That beauty am I bless'd with which you see.
That might your nature, honour and exception
justle a constable. Why, thou deboshed fish thou,
Not on a band, but on a stronger thing;
O, what a world is this, when what is comely
Exeunt
He dies that strikes again. What is the matter?
he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
Whoever wins, on that side shall I lose
A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
Preserve the king.
Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin
Anon!
The covering sky is nothing; Bohemia nothing;
My lady charged my duty in this business.
In truth, I know not. I was set at work
The man that hath no music in himself,
We have descried, upon our neighbouring shore,
But are they, Ariel, safe?
Too well, too well.
You'll heat my blood: no more.
better increasing your folly! Sir Toby will be
Bound me in servitude.
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis
I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
minority: his enter and exit shall be strangling a
What, with five thousand men?
In obstinate condolement is a course
And die in music.
Thump.
O, some authority how to proceed;
If you head and hang all that offend that way but
Enter a third Servingman. The first meets him
When he shines by: I say again, thy spirit
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby
No.
Must in your child be thought on. If neglection
I think it best you married with the county.
In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
To bear with their perverse objections;
[To HERO]  Well, niece, I trust you will be ruled
Give me thy hand; come on.
Carry his honours even: whether 'twas pride,
Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land:
like an impediment in the current, made it more
First, lean thine aged back against mine arm;
Now know you, Casca, I have moved already
Were it a casque composed by Vulcan's skill,
ANTIPHOLUS
By Hercules, I think I am i' the right.
And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
Crack nature's moulds, an germens spill at once,
Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.
Dash him to pieces!
Feign'd Fortune to be throned: the base o' the mount
And if I die to-morrow, this is hers,
He's worth no more
When it shines seldom in admiring eyes;
New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
Are all too dear for me: lie they upon thy hand,
likes. 'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with
Julia, farewell!
And all of you clapp'd up together in
From what you rightly are.
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
tell you, that, though she harbours you as her
Fits kings, as they are men, for they may err.
A critic, nay, a night-watch constable;
And say it was thy mother that thou meant'st
Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts
Was not my lord
my state,--
With sleight and manhood stole to Rhesus' tents,
To answer for his love, tell him from me
Yet, ere you shall depart, this we desire,
A miracle! a miracle!
Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young
Then I know thee not:
Since guiltiness I know not; but yet I feel I fear.
That which, to appear itself, must not yet be
Thou speak'st aright;
It does from childishness: can Fulvia die?
He shall do this, or else I do recant
From heart of very heart, great Hector, welcome.
Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of
So be sure will Rosalind.
Which they dare swear peculiar: your case is better.
Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see:
That if your highness should intend to sleep
homely foolery already. I know, sir, we weary you.
Let him fear this, for it will come to pass
Scorn'd a fair colour, or express'd it stolen;
Wafting his eyes to the contrary and falling
Signior Baptista's liberality,
Your ignorance, which finds not till it feels,
Most often do so near the bottom run
Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths;
Sir, the maid loves you, and all shall be well. We
Ay, say you so? the gates shall then be open'd.
Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
To come with him along.
To say 'King Richard:' alack the heavy day
I am maim'd for ever. Help, ho! murder! murder!
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
And therefore, living hence, did give ourself
As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall,
And not endure all threats? sleep upon't,
Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion.
He loves your wife; there's the short and the long.
Enter certain Murderers, hastily
Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance;
Fair lovely maid, once more good day to thee.
Gloucester's eye!
Good morrow, brother Bedford. God Almighty!
Thou wall, O wall, O sweet and lovely wall,
To ARTHUR
That what he will he does, and does so much
That I must yield my body to the earth
Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold
What should this mean?
epilogue alone.
Hoists sails and flies.
Directly, I am going to Caesar's funeral.
Know you not, master, to some kind of men
Beyond all limit of what else i' the world
Thou liest; thou canst not.
Drag back our expedition: certain horse
What mightst thou do, that honour would thee do,
Come with a thought I thank thee, Ariel: come.
And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
Whom, though in general part we were opposed,
The dark and vicious place where thee he got
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
Our fertile France, put up her lovely visage?
That can assure my daughter greatest dower
For I am nothing, if not critical.
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
I would I had been there.
And fright him there? and make him tremble there?
Unscissor'd shall this hair of mine remain,
nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we
This moral ties me over to time and a hot summer;
[Aside to PROSPERO]  Sir, all this service
Now, pray, my lord, let's see the devil's writ.
Enter the DUCHESS aloft, HUME following
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
Although, my lord, I know my noble aunt
Didst hear her speak? is she shrill-tongued or low?
First with the best of note: Cymbeline loved me,
Stealing her soul with many vows of faith
Of whence he is, his name and parentage.
What, is he angry too?
am apt to do myself wrong; I am not so reputed: it
Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
The fiery orbs above and the twinn'd stones
Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
I will, my lord.
a-birding; she desires you once more to come to her
Deprived of honour and inheritance.
Like to the empress' Moor; therefore I kill'd him.
Speak out thy sorrows which thou bring'st in haste,
Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
It is a cause worthy my spleen and fury,
Two props of virtue for a Christian prince,
Exit
O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks,
What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
no more pains for those thanks than you took pains
Is all the counsel that we two have shared,
about matters they were not able to answer.
When you and those poor number saved with you
Free from a stubborn opposite intent,
they did last time.
wrong side may be turned outward!
By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.
For our enemies shall fall before us, inspired with
My noble gossips, ye have been too prodigal:
Are confident against the world in arms.
Exeunt CORIOLANUS, COMINIUS, MENENIUS, Senators, and Patricians
SCENE III. LEONATO'S orchard.
For the rain,  and c.
SCENE II. France. Before Rouen.
Crossing the sea from England into France,
shall seek all day ere you find them, and when you
of travellers.
belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified unjust
mind good; O, there were desolation of gaolers and
[Advancing]             Ay, so thou dost,
a heavy case, your purse in a light; yet you see how
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
O, I am scalded with my violent motion,
Dost thou entreat me, Hector?
Wake, my mistress!
But that the heavens fought: the king himself
Thy slanders I forgive; and therewithal
Which otherwise would grow into extremes.
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit:
a bodkin's point.
Re-enter DUKE OF YORK, with KING RICHARD II, and Officers bearing the regalia
To give the enemy way, and to secure us
love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it; for the
March. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, WARWICK, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, and Soldiers
blood, and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot
have a stoup of wine; and here without are a brace
Some remedies for life.
Yet that, by you deposed, you quake like rebels?
cousin to a good husband.
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
I'll have no wife, Paulina.
Alas, you know not: I must tell you then:
And lords and ladies in their lives
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
The multitudinous tongue; let them not lick
DON
His noble nephew here in virtue's nest,
Where is Metellus Cimber? Let him go,
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
A plague of opinion! a man may wear it on both
And lack of other means, in desperate manner
Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks,
Are pleased to breed out your inheritors:
thankfulness. For your own gifts, make yourselves
of company. I think, if your husbands were dead,
'Tis true, my lords, he did.
I'll slit the villain's nose, that would have sent
Enter Chorus
Which, cunningly effected, will beget
comfort; your son will not be killed so soon as I
Was innocence for innocence; we knew not
Exeunt Citizens with the body
What two things?
Enter another Messenger
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
Pluck'd four away.
Where's the fool now?
an usurped beard; I say, put money in thy purse. It
I'll wake mine eye-balls blind first.
For that her reputation was disvalued
And that may be determined at the one
The rest are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires,
Let them be whipped through every market-town, till
creature in resemblance of the mother, the affection
Come, mourn with me for that I do lament,
By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good,
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
So shall Biron take me for Rosaline.
face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels
Commend me to your honourable wife:
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
Come, I will have thee; but, by this light, I take
Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent
And in's spring became a harvest, lived in court--
Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception: I
and broke three of his ribs, that there is little
For, by the honour of my parents, I
Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
To her will we to dinner.
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
By gar, with all my heart. He promise to bring me
The shes of Italy should not betray
No less importing than our general good,
What's the matter, sweet-heart?
To mingle faith with him! Undone! undone!
Faith, sir, so so.
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
endings: no, I was not born under a rhyming planet,
Or you shall hear in such a kind from me
If the ground be overcharged, you were best stick her.
To lay on me a cruelty, by taking
Believe me, sir, she is the goodliest woman
Nothing in France, until he has no wife!
Thy woes will make them sharp, and pierce like mine.
But like a common and an outward man,
For living idly here in pomp and ease,
To steel a strong opinion to themselves?
Have you pray'd to-night, Desdemona?
And our nobility will scorn the match.
And fall to reprobation.
many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian, Cosmo, Lodowick,
This night's great business into my dispatch;
What figure of us think you he will bear?
cut off a woman's head.
From the true seed of honour! and how much honour
Exit
Sir, the event
To send me packing with an host of men:
That's sorry yet for thee.
Returns us that his powers are yet not ready
I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
It likes me well. Biondello, hie you home,
And 'tis the very riches of thyself
His years but young, but his experience old;
I am possess'd with an adulterate blot;
While these do labour for their own preferment,
Domestic awe, night-rest, and neighbourhood,
This present summons?
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR, DON JOHN, BORACHIO, MARGARET, URSULA and others, masked
Poor I was slain when Bassianus died.
By me?
Which, of he or Adrian, for a good
Yet be cheerful, knight: thou shalt eat a posset
that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness:
So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
With female fairies will his tomb be haunted,
cunning in fence, I'ld have seen him damned ere I'ld
Enter ACHILLES, with Myrmidons
Finding it so inclined.
Small as an eunuch, or the virgin voice
But first I beg my pardon, the young lord
Farewell to you; and you; and you, Volumnius.
I dare not know, my lord.
A very fatal place it seems to me.
Without ripe moving to't? Would I do this?
My master, sir, Master Slender, sent to her, seeing
I'll make you quiet. What, cheerly, my hearts!
I'll keep you company.
To revel it with him and his new bride:
Upon a time,--unhappy was the clock
Fat paunches have lean pates, and dainty bits
Madam, farewell.
And for his ordinary pays his heart
Or thy precedent services are all
The very spirit of Plantagenet!
That which my daughter came to look upon,
Humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost;
he shall reign; but I'll be protector over him.
Hear me, recreant!
To bide upon't, thou art not honest, or,
'Tis he and Cloten: malice and lucre in them
other her defences, which now are too too strongly
will better the instruction.
Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,
Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, in one
Agamemnon,
Which once,' quoth Forrest, 'almost changed my mind;
Is any woman wrong'd by this lewd fellow,
Now, by God's mother, priest, I'll shave your crown for this,
My husband will not rejoice so much at the abuse of
But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
I shall indue you with: meantime but ask
are forfeited to me, and my honour's paid to him. He
Well, let them rest. Come hither, Catesby.
And utter ruin of the house of York.
Stay your thanks a while;
When haply he shall hear that she is gone,
What men are you?
With open mouth swallowing a tailor's news;
To him will I : out of these convertites
Enter BEATRICE, behind
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
Grieve not that I am fallen to this for you;
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE, HORATIO, and a Gentleman
Which never labour'd in their minds till now,
Yes, verily and in truth, you shall take it; or I
Come on, sir knave, have done your foolishness,
We make a quire, as doth the prison'd bird,
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
But, as 'tis,
Exit
What I desire to give, and much less take
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
When you shall come to clearer knowledge, that
And when it hath the thing it hunteth most,
Only about her coronation.
And I am going with instruction to him.
I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich, and swallow
They play
Ready, with every nod, to tumble down
Is but a substance that must yield to you;
Pray thee, corporal, stay: the knocks are too hot;
And shall my youth be guilty of such blame?
And bloody England into England gone,
Such friends as time in Padua shall beget.
I never did thee harm: why wilt thou slay me?
Great Kings of France and England! That I have labour'd,
This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood;
Bid her have good heart:
From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit
This was the most unkindest cut of all;
Ruling in large and ample empery
If thou dost play with him at any game,
Speak, Winchester; for boiling choler chokes
They are worse fools to purchase mocking so.
Fair Helena in fancy following me.
In evils to top Macbeth.
To point his slow unmoving finger at!
'Tis dry enough,--will, with great speed of judgment,
And leave them honeyless.
Will this content you, Kate?
O heavens forfend!
Fly, fly, fly! Sir Humphrey Stafford and his
Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage;
If I know more of any man alive
Of parents good, of fist most valiant.
You tallow-face!
Even for his sake am I pitiless.
out, they will spit; and for lovers lacking--God
Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
When to her beauty I commend my vows,
bring in--God shield us!--a lion among ladies, is a
Enter Shepherd, Clown, MOPSA, DORCAS, and others, with POLIXENES and CAMILLO disguised
If there were reason for these miseries,
seemed sorrow wept to take leave of them, for their
Marry, that with no man here he is offended;
That they have done't?
From him I come
By gentlemen at hand.
With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots.
The very instant that I saw you, did
That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand;
What, will you have me, or your pearl again?
That thou restrain'st from me the duty which
Corrupters of my faith! you shall no more
In pity of his misery, to dispatch
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
I talk of you:
The duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted,
Rule in this realm, and the gored state sustain.
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of;
And pity to the general wrong of Rome--
A heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue:
Very sooth, to-morrow.
If you contend, a thousand lives must wither.
Are tricks of custom, but in a man that's just
Damsel of France, I think I have you fast:
Traduced for levity; and 'tis said in Rome
Above the rest, be gone.
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
So bear I thee upon my manly shoulders;
What think'st thou of the gentle Proteus?
circlets of gold without flowers.
in your air.
That I disdain: but for these other gawds,
Above this world; adding thereto moreover
Enter DIOMEDES, TROILUS following
And be it death proclaimed through our host
O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine.
And each particular hair to stand on end,
Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees,
Love use Reason for his physician, he admits him
have great charge.
Most welcome, sir!
baggage would but give way to customers.
For the rain,  and c.
Come to the king and tell him what miracle.
I have many other ways to die; meantime
We could control them. If you will come to me,--
Reason, you rogue, reason: thinkest thou I'll
but in his clothes; and one that hath spoke most
Noble lady,
Therefore make haste. I must go write again
Will make him say I moved him to those arms.
sprat you shall find him; which you shall see this
To rid her from this second marriage,
Other slow arts entirely keep the brain;
sped to-day. You'll remember your brother's excuse?
Ours of true zeal and deep integrity.
his hands.
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
Ha! what sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath
are he, you are he.
And that we have a curse in having her:
Neighing in likeness of a filly foal:
Nay, not sound, I pray you.
SCENE VII. Near Actium. MARK ANTONY's camp.
Marry, were they.
Return you to my sister.
Why should you sigh, my lord?
To have brought viva voce to his face:
What boots it thee to call thyself a sun?
This youth should say 'twere well and only therefore
At what it did so freely? From this time
O Isabel, will you not lend a knee?
Lavinia, though you left me like a churl,
So stands this squire
Yet come again; for thou perhaps mayst move
How do you, madam? how do you, my good lady?
your sake, Kate, why you undid me: for the one, I
That I extend my manners; 'tis my breeding
Exeunt all but HAMLET
And cleave to no revenge but Lucius.
To yield what passes here.
Enter MACDUFF
Is that the rebels have consumed with fire
Even the billows of the sea,
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
thought, because he could not speak English in the
Then be my passions bottomless with them.
Must I go show them my unbarbed sconce?
flame-coloured stock. Shall we set about some revels?
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
Nonsuits my mediators; for, 'Certes,' says he,
And all the currents of a heady fight.
Not all together: better far, I guess,
Upon thy tongue as in my thought: now, good now,
He kills the nurse
A holy maid hither with me I bring,
Nor can we lie distinguish'd by our faces
If he be slain, say 'I'; or if not, no:
Madam, not yet: I go to take my stand,
It is true.
Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
It is a business of some heat: the galleys
And strike her home by force, if not by words:
letter:--and she hath the prettiest sententious of
Blow off thy cap; praise his most vicious strain,
questions, and by them answer.
If you see vengeance,--
love me, hold not off.
Why, man?
I was directed hither: men report
[Aside]  And supper too, although thou know'st it not.
king, nor the queen: and therefore, Peter, have at
To stir men's blood: I only speak right on;
Me?
Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.
To RICHMOND
Forget not, in your speed, Antonius,
Is leaden servitor to dull delay;
You look as if you held a brow of much distraction
age of two and twenty or thereabouts! I am
More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable:
Nothing certainer:
stuff his suspicion more fully.--I will persevere in
And it is thought abroad, that 'twixt my sheets
Making them proud of his humility,
'Twixt the souls of friend and friend:
This is some priory. In, or we are spoil'd!
Good, i' faith. Come, begin.
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,
In pleasure of my spleen.' And in this fashion,
Giving a paper
They froze me into silence.
Exeunt General,  and c
Enter PATROCLUS
A sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent,
Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do
flinch, chide me for it.
Pray, walk awhile.
Unless, by using means, I lame the foot
Stop,
You nickname virtue; vice you should have spoke;
And talk to you sometimes? Dwell I but in the suburbs
Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?
But all the whole inheritance I give
Exeunt
Who, with their drowsy, slow and flagging wings,
In doing wrong extenuates not wrong,
worst thing about him, how could Master Froth do the
And join'd with Charles, the rightful King of France.'
fall to you upon this, more than thanks and good
Would Katharina had never seen him though!
That which upholdeth him that thee upholds,
But in this extant moment, faith and troth,
Great lords, wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss,
I'll strike thee dead. Put up thy sword betime;
Re-enter THURIO
From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
That's not feigned; he is so.
The numbers true; and, were the numbering too,
Search every acre in the high-grown field,
Against the invulnerable clouds of heaven;
And after one hour more 'twill be eleven;
In such a gorgeous palace!
Together with my brave Egyptians all,
In following him, I follow but myself;
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
And why not you?
For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven
Ingrateful Rome requites with foul contempt,
At eighteen years became inquisitive
Then know, it is your fault that you resign
To Ireland, Poictiers, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
So he would keep fair quarter with his bed!
I cry you mercy, then:
De foot, madame; et de coun.
Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
SCENE I. A Senator's house.
To see how fortune is disposed to us;
O any thing, of nothing first create!
But that our honours must not. What's to say?
Madam, 's enough for you:
Hath not our brother made a worthy choice?
Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
Of this most pompous marriage-feast.
Lucius, what book is that she tosseth so?
To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
That did display them when we first march'd forth;
Exeunt from above
When earthly things made even
Exeunt
him, to be truly touched with love: if he be sad,
The name of hardiness and policy.
Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
Or, if you show your face, you must not speak.
O, that a mighty man of such descent,
He is twenty men to one.
Why makest thou it so strange?
As one near death to those that wish him live:
With whom the father liking took,
Cinna, where haste you so?
Enter FALSTAFF, GADSHILL, BARDOLPH, and PETO; FRANCIS following with wine
Enter MARK ANTONY with a Messenger and Attendants
Fury, Fury! there, Tyrant, there! hark! hark!
Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.
To love her for her mother's sake, that loved him,
Caesar said to me 'Darest thou, Cassius, now
Exeunt
Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
To talk with him and to behold his visage,
And yet--O, see the monstrousness of man
Give me my sword.
Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir; but yet,
Master Slender hath married her daughter.
Base slave, thy words are blunt and so art thou.
They fight, and certain Volsces come to the aid of  AUFIDIUS. MARCIUS fights till they be driven in breathless
The best, for the innocence.
Without sweat or endeavour: treason, felony,
He offers in another's enterprise;
Yet, God before, tell him we will come on,
As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
A thing, my lord!
My brain more busy than the labouring spider
On their abatement: that's not my desire:
wooed Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the
coming, to offer you service.
Exeunt
To County Paris, to prepare him up
And on the justice of my flying hence,
Which still should go with Antony.
If I would broach the vessels of my love,
Re-enter Officers, with CLEOMENES and DION
spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will
He will again be well: if much you note him,
But God in mercy so deal with my soul,
Withal I did infer your lineaments,
She would with rich and constant pen
Leave your crisp channels and on this green land
Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase; and taunt my faults
Of all my buried ancestors are packed:
And princess no worse issued.
If I be not by her fair influence
Monsieur Love! I will hide me in the arbour.
You have forgot the will I told you of.
I have a widow aunt, a dowager
Do you hear, master porter?
To expel sickness, but prolong his hour!
Now I do wish it, love it, long for it,
That vow a long and weary pilgrimage;
cannot show it in rhyme; I have tried: I can find
us, do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall we not
How doth he stand affected to our purpose;
Let me be thought too busy in my fears--
But yet I know you'll do as I advise.
[Aside]  True; from a gentleman to a fool.
Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
That though his actions were not visible, yet
Till I be gentle, stay thou for thy good morrow;
Will stupefy and dull the sense awhile;
And I, to make thee mad, do mock thee thus.
Exit
cap-a-pe; and one that will either push on or pluck
Have empty left their orbs, and shot their fires
The rush that lies before him; cries, 'Fool Lepidus!'
Say that she be; yet Valentine thy friend
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
And speak unto the same AEmilia!
Thy wife is proud; she holdeth thee in awe,
though I must be content to bear with those that say
Sir,
Your breath of full consent bellied his sails;
And that most deeply to consider is
You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects,
Whose hot incursions and great name in arms
Alarums, excursions, retreat. Enter KING JOHN,  QUEEN ELINOR, ARTHUR, the BASTARD, HUBERT, and Lords
Your followers I will whisper to the business,
Let them have scope: though what they do impart
Which of you trembles not that looks on me?
honourable without marriage? I think you would have
One ever near thee: call for Enobarbus,
Now, sir, hast thou cried her through the market?
It was a crest ere thou wast born:
Cave here, hunt here, are outlaws, and in time
There greet in silence, as the dead are wont,
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?
To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed
Where shall I meet you?
Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride;
It not concern'd me.
It is now apparent?
Exit HELENA
From hence you be committed to the Tower;
Know, then,
Very well; and could be content to give him good
ANTIPHOLUS
Nature this dowry gave, to glad her presence,
My haste may not admit it;
argument, Achilles.
I must catechise you for it, madonna: good my mouse
And give you gold for such provision
You're welcome: what's your will?
Why, Clarence, to myself.
What life is in that, to be the death of this marriage?
Now the hungry lion roars,
against the law of arms: 'tis as arrant a piece of
Is thy master stirring?
I am glad your grace has made that right use of it.
Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo;
Nay, then--
Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son.
those that are married already, all but one, shall
Flourish, and shout within, 'Make way there: Octavius Caesar!'
Hercules; the pedant, Judas Maccabaeus: And if
York lies; he might have sent and had the horse;
Thus we may see,' quoth he, 'how the world wags:
Would you buy her, that you inquire after her?
Thou shalt not do't.
Methought that Gloucester stumbled; and, in falling,
fingres, de mails--
that is the breff and the long. Marry, I wad full
My swift command, though I with death and with
You have witchcraft in your lips, Kate: there is
Exit
Iago,--
France is revolted from the English quite,
dissembling luxurious drab, of a sleeveless errand.
As you had slept between: Leontes leaving,
Fare you well.
Exit Guardsman
Paris your brother, and Deiphobus,
O unbid spite! is sportful Edward come?
And with submissive loyalty of heart
SCENE I. The city gate.
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
go not together: she's a good sign, but I have seen
Why, he but sleeps:
A rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven.
So, so, there!
every man put himself into triumph; some to dance,
But, Titus, I have touched thee to the quick,
shoe is my father: no, this left shoe is my father:
A doctrine of obedience; and would gladly
Off-capp'd to him: and, by the faith of man,
Will you go hunt, my lord?
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.
I am sorry I must never trust thee more,
And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights,
We are honour'd much by good Simonides.
And for the love he beareth to your daughter
O, he's returned; and as pleasant as ever he was.
ALONSO, SEBASTIAN  and c. draw their swords
Behold, distraction, frenzy and amazement,
Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter
Not as protector, steward, substitute,
Not to them all.
gravity to play at cherry-pit with Satan: hang
Enter CLEON, the governor of Tarsus, with DIONYZA, and others
been a rod to her friends; you have not indeed loved
Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him!
So cowardly; and but for these vile guns,
peradventure prings goot discretions with it: there
Do you but strike the blow.
You are potently opposed; and with a malice
She strikes him
And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth.'
And not retire: let me have your good will.
Let fools do good, and fair men call for grace.
Being entertained for a perfumer, as I was smoking a
That can I witness; and a fouler fact
Enter KATHARINA
By and by is easily said.
Wives may be merry, and yet honest too:
Now Hal, to the news at court: for the robbery,
ANTIPHOLUS
And when goes hence?
For the which she wept heartily and said she cared
Else let my brother die,
Is spotless reputation: that away,
Your servant Kent: Where is your servant Caius?
Two of the first, like coats in heraldry,
I will; and so will she, I know, my lord.
You do the nobler.
besides, you grow dishonest.
Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither:
How you speak!
He whispers in his ear
My lord, break we off; we know your mind at full.
And bid him come and banquet at thy house;
both the confirmer of false reckonings. He attends
The son, the husband and the father tearing
And fall somewhat into a slower method,
Nay, this way, man: see where the huntsmen stand.
And when the hardiest warriors did retire,
How every thing is chanced.
Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.
you think is his name?
Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to
And write to her a love-line.
As Hymen's lamps shall light you.
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
Of this fair couple, meets he on the way
A world by itself; and we will nothing pay
If it were yours by none of all these ways,
And fight maliciously: for when mine hours
The letter at Sir Toby's great importance;
Whose figure even this instant cloud puts on,
And lose advantage, which doth ever cool
Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;
Give mine the benefit of seniory,
I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
Your soldiers use him as the grace 'fore meat,
Laid nobly on her: which perform'd, the choir,
hath them as huge as the rascal. Is the single man
he's much out of health, and keeps his chamber.
Must be half-workers? We are all bastards;
'Alack, why does he so?'
The time will come when thou shalt wish for me
Unguided and unfriended, often prove
Which of you have done this?
The Anthropophagi and men whose heads
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is
Hold, take my ring.
As love is, my lord, before it loves.
unhappy brains for drinking: I could well wish
But he's in a suit of buff which 'rested him, that can I tell.
Silence that fellow: I would he had some cause
I cannot think it. Hark! what noise is this?
Behold this maid: all corners else o' the earth
of earnest.
He's a bear indeed, that lives like a lamb. You two
No further, sir.
I'll send the fool to Ajax and desire him
From which advantage shall we cut him off,
The gutter'd rocks and congregated sands--
Like the brass cannon; let the brow o'erwhelm it
More is thy due than more than all can pay.
Hail, you anointed deputies of heaven!
having the world for your labour, tis a wrong in your
As we do trace this alley up and down,
But what's the matter?
One of them we behold.
That granted, how canst thou believe an oath?
Can I demand.
Madam, to you as many and as good:
Rebuke me not for that which you provoke:
But from deceit bred by necessity;
We answer others' merits in our name,
Nor met with fortune other than at feasts,
You should account me the more virtuous that I have
I have no more to say, But bid Bianca farewell for
Why I do trifle thus with his despair
With much ado at length have gotten leave
Alas, how can we for our country pray.
That were to enlard his fat already pride
The lustre in your eye, heaven in your cheek,
O, now you weep; and, I perceive, you feel
Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart.
To one of woman born.
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
Since the first sword was drawn about this question,
She is not, madam.
horse-stealer, but for his verity in love, I do
And I, poor monster, fond as much on him;
He's coming.
All his offences live upon my head
To meet Northumberland and the prelate Scroop,
Than dangerous to me: to Aufidius thus
skirts of the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.
Melancholy.
A little time, my lord, will kill that grief.
And on his son young John, who two hours since
If he outlive the envy of this day,
But wherefore stand'st thou with thy weapon drawn?
DON
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave,
when he got me: therefore was I created with a
shall be as it may. I dare not fight; but I will
Enter the Lord Mayor and Citizens
In spite of us or aught that we could do.
He is a proper man's picture, but, alas, who can
Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war
And many unfrequented plots there are
at their society, as their friendship, may
I blame you not for praising Caesar so;
Sings
And make us wade even in our kindred's blood,
'Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
Nay, I'll ne'er believe a madman till I see his
So long as out of limit and true rule
Why, I pray you?
Which fear if better reasons can supplant,
Exeunt all but the BASTARD
Attend the true event, and put we on
As if this flesh which walls about our life,
mio Petruchio.' Rise, Grumio, rise: we will compound
Produce the prisoner.
Let him bless thee too.
To be so taken at thy peril, Jew.
I never gave him any:
Noble, courageous high, unmatchable,
Lo, ere I can repeat this curse again,
And the flesh'd soldier, rough and hard of heart,
Now all the blessings
She's dead, my queen:
Ay.
A lack, how may I do it, having the hour limited,
I am the man: if it be so, as 'tis,
I see no reason, if I wear this rose,
Who to my father was a friend, to me
The honey of his language. No, he's settled,
Is he gone?
Are we come hither: since that thy sight,
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
I shall not need transport my words by you;
Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me.
If such a one be fit to govern, speak:
Even with a treacherous fine of all your lives,
This is his uncle's teaching; this is Worcester,
As now we meet. You have deceived our trust,
Exit above
So old and white as this. O! O! 'tis foul!
There I couch when owls do cry.
For what offence?
And takest it all for jest.
through thee. Give me thy hand.
Re-enter MARIA, with MALVOLIO
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Come, come, have with you. Wot you what, my lord?
You taught me first to beg; and now methinks
Here comes the emperor.
But welcome, as you are. What shall we do?
over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I
Once more, adieu: be valiant, and speed well!
As love is full of unbefitting strains,
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
Subject his coronet to his crown and bend
Cannot attain it, why, then,--hark you hither!
Nay, follow him, gentlemen; see the issue of his search.
Till he did look on me: since it is so,
Then learn to know him now; this is the duke.
Princes, it is too late to talk of love;
In all this presence that hath moved me so.
sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged;
Whose heart the accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
Ay, madam.
Tincture or lustre in her lip, her eye,
Pluck down forms, windows, any thing.
But we'll outface them, and outswear them too.
O wall, full often hast thou heard my moans,
Our true intent is. All for your delight
And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.
The wildest savagery, the vilest stroke,
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
O Tamora, be call'd a gentle queen,
Seek not my name: a plague consume you wicked
Shall cry for blessings on him: may he live
you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight.
my consent, and my consent goes not that way.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!
as the morality of imprisonment. What's thy
And her troth plight,
And of how coward a spirit.
Is to become her husband and her father:
may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to
Free from the bondage you are in, Messala:
further than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you.
Only convey me where thou art commanded.
quarrel with fear and trembling.
Put garlands on thy head.
Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
Deliver'd you a paper that I should not:
Sir Valentine!
with me: I'll be horn-mad.
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
Exeunt
sight of him.
assaults of affection.
Enter an Attendant
Here comes Boyet, and mirth is in his face.
Be any further moved. What you have said
To rid the realm of this pernicious blot?
That for a trifle that was bought with blood
Earth's increase, foison plenty,
a-field to-day?
The King of Naples, being an enemy
soldier, put up your iron: you are well fleshed; come on.
That's more than we know.
I doubt he will be dead or ere I come.
His name unparallel'd, haply amplified;
How you do talk!
he abides.
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
Sir, I will.
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:
As you like this, give me the lie another time.
Which often hath no less prevail'd than so
Why?
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
SCENE V. OLIVIA's garden.
In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
Thou with an eagle art inspired then.
And that same dew, which sometime on the buds
So, in the famous ancient city, Tours,
All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, thane of Glamis!
Enter CORIN
This is her question.
Such barren pleasures, rude society,
If not complete of, say he is not she;
He is a happy king, since he gains from his subjects
Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man
maids, and cut off their heads.
My frail mortality to know itself,
To LYSIMACHUS
Cries out for noble York and Somerset,
The children must
me like men:
More than pertains to feats of broil and battle,
Here an alarum again: and TALBOT pursueth the  DAUPHIN, and driveth him: then enter JOAN LA  PUCELLE, driving Englishmen before her, and exit after them then re-enter TALBOT
and will come into 't? I hear say you are of
Hear me a little;
I heard him swear his affection.
Yea, two and two, Newgate fashion.
like an image and says nothing, and the other too
me; by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor
Suspecting that we both were in a house
To-morrow, my lord: time goes on crutches till love
I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
For why, the fools are mad, if left alone.
her;' and where some stretch-mouthed rascal would,
The empire of the sea: our slippery people,
Have written strange defeatures in my face:
And shall do:
wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
To bring my whole cause 'fore his holiness,
None can be call'd deform'd but the unkind:
Touching her flight.
Have you done there?
From my cold heart let heaven engender hail,
too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell, thou
Re-enter CORIOLANUS
Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit
And many more of noble fame and worth:
Sweet father, do so; set it on your head.
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
But his occasion might have woo'd me first;
Exit BIONDELLO
Who dream'd, who thought of such a thing?'
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn,
His bloody brow! O Jupiter, no blood!
To be in anger is impiety;
Why, then, good night indeed.
fine and recovery, he will never, I think, in the
The error of our eye directs our mind:
appertaining to thy young days, which we may
'Fore God, I think so.
For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
Whose every touch, would force the feeler's soul
To lay a complot to betray thy foes.
if your father will do me any honour, so; if not, let
Exceed three days: in faith, he's penitent;
I have yielded to: fresh embassies and suits,
I do defy him, and I spit at him;
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand;
I owe the most, in money and in love,
undergo those employments wherein I should have
Let life be short; else shame will be too long.
Re-enter HORTENSIO, with his head broke
And urge her to a present answer back:
Well, that's set down.
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
He that sweetest rose will find
Mistress, your father prays you leave your books
Nay, by God, soft; I know a trick worth two of that, i' faith.
And what we do establish he confirms:
As the dog Jew did utter in the streets:
O, how I love thee! how I dote on thee!
Unless it be to come before their time;
Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus.
Enter Chorus
But can you teach all this you speak of?
Exit
Nay, good goose, bite not.
To anger him we'll have the bear again; and we will
Ask him upon his oath, if he does think
I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
her earnest?
ACT IV
sweet knaves,
created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
Would the fountain of your mind were clear again,
foul knave uncuckolded: therefore, dear Isis, keep
throwing him into the water will do him a benefit.
Whither 'tis bent: most likely 'tis for you:
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
Which Rome reputes to be a heinous sin,
To think me as well a sister as a wife,
What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? Shall
Than love that's hired! What, goest thou back? thou shalt
Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise;
And constant do remain to keep him so.
A pouncet-box, which ever and anon
knew of their going to bed, and of other motions,
That wants the means to lead it.
To hazard all our lives in one small boat!
humble-mouth'd;
Enter SIR STEPHEN SCROOP
ends, as they say.
In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself.
Drawn on with torture.
The prince must think me tardy and remiss,
The liquid drops of tears that you have shed
Exeunt
There would have been a time for such a word.
Speak thou no more, if all the rest will speed.
Hector trembles.
Why should she live, to fill the world with words?
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.
Methinks I see a quickening in his eye.
O, here's Servilius; now we shall know some answer.
You ask with such a violence, the king,
A friend.
That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles;
a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must
They draw
Gross fools as he,
We had need pray,
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but,
Such griefs as you yourself do lay upon yourself.
Hugh? no; he gives me the proverbs and the
Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels,
Ay, sir, and done too, for this time.
When all her chivalry hath been in France
your pleasures; at the least if you take it as a
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
This will I do, and soon return again.
The Song
melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return
You are too indulgent. Let us grant, it is not
And put on sullen black incontinent:
For some dishonest manners of their life,
Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
To those whose dealings have deserved the place,
Damn'd in the first beginners!--gan to look
Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
And do you now put on your best attire?
If it be dark, how dost thou know 'tis he?
Nothing but curious pleasures, as from thence
Immediately we do exile him hence:
Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes,
To greet your lord with writing, do't to-night:
are wise and full of gibes and vlouting-stocks, and
all.
To him that does best: God forbid else. Cardinal,
Nay, I was taken up for laying them down:
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
Her mood will needs be pitied.
As infinite as man may undergo--
My daughter he hath wedded: I will die,
Now play me Nestor; hem, and stroke thy beard,
Don John had made, away went Claudio enraged; swore
'Faith, yes, to be put to the arbitrement of swords,
Enter GLOUCESTER
Hear'st thou, Mars?
Of quick, cross lightning? to watch--poor perdu!--
Where, after I have solemnly interr'd
out the villain Gloucester.
Who, ne'er so tame, so cherish'd and lock'd up,
I can speak English, lord, as well as you;
Yet he spurs on. Now they are almost on him.
But look'd not on the poison of their hearts :
Where every horse bears his commanding rein,
by't: out with 't! within ten year it will make
Here's a strange alteration!
The farthest limit of my embassy.
By any voice or order of the field?
thy friend. Come, thou canst not hide it.
Came in and satisfied him.
And all the gods go with you! upon your sword
Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.
His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
Tire on the flesh of me and of my son!
Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home?
One word more; I charge thee
Conceit upon her father.
But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.
Nay, but thou shalt stay too: I would my son
agrees the devil and thee about thy soul, that thou
Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light.
That she shall still be curst in company.
Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
I know it by their pale and deadly looks:
O, very well, my lord: the music ended,
The flower of Europe for his chivalry;
For the fair devil. Now art thou my lieutenant.
by reckoning, sir.
Placing therein some expert officers,
and drown? Have you a mind to sink?
Slander to the state! Away with him to prison!
With such a heady currance, scouring faults
To give it from me.
Under my feet I stamp thy cardinal's hat:
Which of you two did dine with me to-day?
face, a reverend carriage, a slow tongue, in the
father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.
Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free
''Tis dinner-time,' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he;
As she from one ungot.
Here never shines the sun; here nothing breeds,
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
If you say ay, the king will not say no.
O, let me entreat thee cease. Give me thy hand,
I am sure, have shown at full their royal minds--
Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous
Why, of mankind.
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave;
But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
I have cast off for ever: thou shalt,
For all the world
Were both extermined.
And every jest but a word.
Join we together, for the public good,
Here in your city; I now came from him:
I know not how to pray your patience;
Are nobly undergone and most poor matters
And play the swaggerer; bear this, bear all:
I am a villain: yet I lie. I am not.
And in the pulpit, as becomes a friend,
very nothing, and beyond the imagination of his
understand, the greater file of the subject held the
'My father, not this youth.'
Al'ce madam, or Joan madam?
And no way canst thou turn thee for redress,
Nay, Eleanor, then must I chide outright:
Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons,
I mean the whispered ones, for they are yet but
It seems to me most strange that men should fear;
Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility: mark his
Gnawing with thy teeth; and be this dismal sight
I would have had you put your power well on,
Dare you presume to harbour wanton lines?
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
Enter DUKE
For many carriages he hath dispatch'd
There is further compliment of leavetaking
Then our office may,
To the yet unbegotten sin of times;
That none so small advantage shall step forth
Pardon, madam;
It is religion to be thus forsworn,
Thou'rt mad to say it:
Sirrah, what's thy name?
For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
Never yet branded with suspicion?
Especially he hath incurred the everlasting
my apron: and, Will, thou shalt have my hammer:
This weak impress of love is as a figure
Be his own carver and cut out his way,
Which, as thou know'st, unjustly must be spilt.
Enter Sir William LUCY
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
What's the cause?
In such an honour named. What's more to do,
The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
In loud rebellion.
Good night to your redress! Is the duke gone?
Exeunt Duke and his train
And chide the cripple tardy-gaited night
knowledge and accordingly valiant.
And, look, what notes and garments he doth give thee,
His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do;
Like one besotted on your sweet delights:
Good Kate; I am a gentleman.
discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
Now, good digestion wait on appetite,
That can we not; but he that proves the king,
And here a prophet, that I brought with me
And time is at his period.
And now, good sweet, say thy opinion,
Enter THALIARD
Not well disposed, the mind growing once corrupt,
Where we have lived, and so extort from's that
Unless I be relieved by prayer,
it; and he that I gave it to in change promised to
rich fellow enough, go to; and a fellow that hath
For government, though high and low and lower,
A charge too heavy for my strength, but yet
Direct not him whose way himself will choose:
Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
To visit other places; and come down
fair thoughts be your fair pillow!
SCENE I:
There.
That which I shall report will bear no credit,
Re-enter SALISBURY
thine:' which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine
My own flesh and blood to rebel!
Then, noble auditory, be it known to you,
Enter TYRREL
A treacherous army levied, one midnight
Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills
Where being apprehended, his false cunning,
Of thirty sail: and now they do restem
give me sight of her; not only bought many presents
To find ourselves dishonourable graves.
But now two paces of the vilest earth
And wet his grave with my repentant tears,
Thou hadst been toss'd from wrong to injury,
Enter JULIET
Norfolk, so far as to mine enemy:--
't as valourously as I may, that sall I suerly do,
to bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped.
'For I must bear thee to a trusty Goth;
Whom he hath dull'd and cloy'd with gracious favours,
Yet this I will not do, do how I can;
At Patrick's cell this even; and there she was not;
Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant and live.
So bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench
O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books
And all the shrouds wherewith my life should sail
If thou vouchsafe them. But if not, then know
Peace, peace, Iras!
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd
your French heart, I will be glad to hear you
'Bring action hither, this cannot go to war:
For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame.
Bishop, farewell: shield thee from Warwick's frown;
Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE
Of whom he had this ring.
I'll tell you what, my cousin Buckingham,--
To whom should I complain? Did I tell this,
Although they want the use of tongue, a kind
Ere so prevail'd with me: it will in time
noise there? What are you?
The better, given me by so holy a man.
Yes, in good faith.
The multiplying villanies of nature
And well become the agent; 't may, I grant;
that thou wilt be a voluntary mute to my design. Be
He used us scornfully: he should have show'd us
I hope so: go and search.
Which means she to deceive, father or mother?
Takes the Child from the Nurse, and draws
If this prove
great an opposition.' Say you so, say you so? I say
Ay, past all surgery.
Who would believe that there were mountaineers
And Silvia is myself: banish'd from her
And cross-gartered?
And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
My mother is assailed in our tent,
Which manifold record not matches? See,
Sufficing strokes for death.
How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
Ay, with celerity, find Hector's purpose
Most true, he does.
This pearl she gave me, I do feel't and see't;
Long ere she did appear; the trees by the way
That thou with licence of free foot hast caught,
Will you two help to hasten them?
No; for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that
Exeunt
You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow:
This is a slave, whose easy-borrow'd pride
We thank you, maiden;
Let there be some more test made of my metal,
To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did
The treason and you go in peace away together.
horse is tied up safe: out, sword, and to a sore
That art to me as secret and as dear
But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap?
I might call him
With great creating nature.
Who should that be? belike, unlook'd-for friends.
Cavaleiro-justice, I say!
The robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief;
Do all lie there: it shall be so my care
Whose execution takes your enemy off,
Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
Stay, then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:
The match is made, and all is done:
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.
In their gold coats spots you see;
that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him
This way the king will come; this is the way
[Aside]  But methinks he should stand in fear of
Gaoler, take him to thy custody.
Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave:
you, here comes my Rosalind.
And she a mourning widow of her nobles,
If presently you will take horse with him,
ill.
And shall forget the office of our hand,
baseness, it is as much as I can do to keep the
And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
Detract so much from that prerogative,
[Reads]  'With a small compassed cape:'
Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?
[Aside]  Simonides!
What, you look merrily!
Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy'd
My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,
'Me, an't shall please you; I am Anthony Dull.
Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
Well, we will leave you then till dinner-time:
About some half-hour hence,
Here on this grass-plot, in this very place,
Sign me a present pardon for my brother,
Three knights upon our party slain to-day,
No; he is best endued in the small.
Show me, show me.
long, I must get a sconce for my head and ensconce
Show them the unaching scars which I should hide,
Nephew, what means this passionate discourse,
Not that Adam that kept the Paradise but that Adam
Some stay to see him fasten'd in the earth.
Take your time.
With all prerogative: hence his ambition growing--
Let his shames quickly
To VARRO
Hath not that honour in't it had; for where
I would not tell you what I would, my lord:
her horse stumbled, how she waded through the dirt
you make your voyage upon her and give me directly
What are his words?
I have done my work in, friends: O, make an end
as I command you.
To the sea-monster: I stand for sacrifice
I'll tell thee what befell me on a day
Be ruled by him, Lord Ajax.
Captain, I will.
Let them puff all about mine ears, present me
From the most gracious regent of this land,
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
In reverend Cerimon there well appears
Now we'll together; and the chance of goodness
So well, that what you bid me undertake,
Good sentences and well pronounced.
To let you enter his unpeopled house.
Re-enter Clown and Shepherd
speak you.
If we be English deer, be then in blood;
talking of her.
Let him be ransom'd: never master had
These English monsters! My Lord of Cambridge here,
His brother and yours, abide all three distracted
Marry, presently.
Lie in the interpretation of the time:
It shall be seven ere I go to horse:
Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK, with their weapons drawn
Thou art too gentle and too free a man:
Peep through each part of him: whence has he that,
This was my wish: 'Be thou,' quoth I, ' accursed,
See who it is: and, now the battle's ended,
Have power to raise such love in mine,
To match thy goodness? My life will be too short,
With thousands of these quarter'd slaves, as high
Their hands and faces were an badged with blood;
repute and carriage.
'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
What name, fair lady?
My lord? my lord?
Why should he be killed?
Why, what is it, my lord?
Shall be, and make new nations: he shall flourish,
The rites of marriage shall be solemnized.
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
Our chimneys were blown down; and, as they say,
He shall know you better, sir, if I may live to
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
And, to remember what he does,
As my two brothers, happy! but most miserable
Rich tire about you, should at these early hours
Methinks, 'tis prize enough to be his son.
Ye all which it inherit, shall dissolve
Restores his heart: when valour preys on reason,
Exeunt Hostess, FRANCIS, and BARDOLPH
Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig and recover the
If you submit you to the people's voices,
Lucius, Lucullus, and Sempronius:
Sir, the gods
and where it would not, I have used my credit.
Ere't be disburden'd with a liberal tongue.
my liking: in the meantime let me be that I am and
Exit
Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords, away.
That give you cause to prove my saying true.
Duke of Anjou and Maine, yet is he poor,
Proceed.
myself honourable! how unluckily it happened, that I
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
sooth, thou wast in very gracious fooling last
some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than
Salisbury is a desperate homicide;
reverberates
She writes so to you, doth she?
If Salisbury be lost.
clown, abandon,--which is in the vulgar leave,--the
When second husband kisses me in bed.
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there,
Art not without ambition, but without
Stole from my bed: and yesternight, at supper,
Robin Starveling, the tailor.
hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely
[Sings]
This way, or not at all, stand you in hope.
Take your commission; hie you to your bands:
Make all our trumpets speak; give them all breath,
These and these conveyances of our blood
Where Henry and dame Margaret kneel'd to me
good Christians ought to have.
Though thou abhorr'dst in us our human griefs,
upon thee. Come, bring me to some private place:
Set down our host. My partner in this action,
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
What did you swear you would bestow on me?
stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house; and we
But, peace! for from broad words and 'cause he fail'd
What hast thou done?
lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I
Exeunt
principal itself not much the worse: away with 't!
He will have all, I think.
The Gentlemen and the two Sailors descend, and go on board the barge
A very fresh-fish here--fie, fie, fie upon
The chief perfections of that lovely dame
What dares not Warwick, if false Suffolk dare him?
That place them on the truth of girls and boys.
Come on, sirrah; hold up your head; answer your
But yet keep time in all. Will you withdraw?
despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he
This is the man; do thy office.
As amorous of their strokes. For her own person,
Quite from the main opinion he held once
best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence,
Is this the daughter of a king?
I am here already, sir.
Out of my sight, and never see me more!
But now the substance shall endure the like,
Therefore thou sleep'st so sound.
Within  'A way there, a way for Caesar!'
Some to the studious universities.
I see the lady hath a thing to grant,
Heaven guide him to thy husband's cudgel, and the
Enter EXTON and Servant
But may imagine how the bird was dead,
Farewell the neighing steed, and the shrill trump,
Some scar of it; lean but upon a rush,
If you do love old men, if your sweet sway
thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant;
Possess'd with rumours, full of idle dreams,
Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
That fair Queen Isabel, his grandmother,
To warn false traitors from the like attempts.
Such a compounded one?
yourself and all the world know to be no petter
Exit Shylock
Have, as I do remember, done me wrong:
If is, my liege; and all things are in readiness.
But kneels and holds up bands for fellowship,
Wisdom! to leave his wife, to leave his babes,
Know, noble lord, they have devised a mean
O, forgive me my sins!
Most rare Pompey!
Why?
Linger your patience on; and we'll digest
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
As it doth well appear unto our state--
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
O, make a league with me, till I have pleased
Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
These walls of ours
Our tradesmen with in their shops and going
Exit
And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes,
end of our show.
Of rich and exquisite form; their values great;
RICHARD
Hard by; at street end; he will be here anon.
When I was young, as yet I am not old,
And this you might have heard of here, by me,
No, I will rob Tellus of her weed,
In love, I hope: sweet fellowship in shame!
of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be released
'Tis not due yet; I would be loath to pay him before
That will I, should I die the hour after.
[Within]  Have at you with another; that's--When?
do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab.
Never presented!--O, a root,--dear thanks!--
Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages
Exeunt
Content with Hermia! No; I do repent
knowing, to a stranger of his quality.
Are but black to Rosalind.
accidentally to encounter you: you have ended my
In sign of league and amity with thee:
That envied his receipt; even so most fitly
pretty encounters, press it to death: away!
Eros,
Enter three FISHERMEN
When the day serves, before black-corner'd night,
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
For even the breath of what I mean to speak
Away, and for our flight.
in King Cambyses' vein.
If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
In warlike march these greens before your town,
by have some speech with you: the satisfaction I
It may be death.
Courage to make 's love kno wn?
To velvet-guards and Sunday-citizens.
That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
At a word, I am not.
Your mother's hand shall right your mother's wrong.
Which do but what they should, by doing every thing
And bid them blow towards England's blessed shore,
Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
I pray you, mar no more of my verses with reading
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
may tutor thee: thou scurvy-valiant ass! thou art
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
What! doth my uncle Burgundy revolt?
Is it not like the king?
'This is no flattery: these are counsellors
For his undone lord than mine eyes for you.
Taking him apart
How now? two of my brother's men bound! Borachio
I had a father, Mistress Anne; my uncle can tell you
For on that ground I'll build a holy descant:
Good counsel, marry: learn it, learn it, marquess.
Enter KING PHILIP, LEWIS, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
That gave me public leave to speak of him:
Why, then she lives.
Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch:
No worthier than the dust!
I will wage against your gold, gold to it: my ring
For I must think of that which company
But not so citizen a wanton as
Red as 'twould burn Rome; and his injury
On this side Tiber; he hath left them you,
Mistress Anne Page. I pray you, be gone: I will
You spend your passion on a misprised mood:
SCENE III. A street.
Be it by gins, by snares, by subtlety,
But when ye have the honey ye desire,
Exit
I go: and towards three or four o'clock
him: something too crabbed that way, friar.
To fall in love with him; but, for my part,
your wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.
Pointing on him.
And though we lay these honours on this man,
My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
Cleopatra, know,
Have in thy reverence made!
That stays but till her owner comes aboard,
Talking of hawking; nothing else, my lord.
Requires a fitter place.
Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek,
Exit BALTHASAR
Hereafter, in a better world than this,
Are therefore to be pitied.
Therefore, to the war!
And hedged me by his wit, to yield myself
Your unknown sovereignty!
Mark how short his answer is;--With Hero, Leonato's
considering the weather, a taller man than I will
Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing.
So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I
Companions to our person and will fit you
Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for
ANTIPHOLUS
Maid's mild behavior and sobriety.
About what?
White-liver'd runagate, what doth he there?
Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable.
Yes, mine's three thousand crowns: what's yours?
Well, bury him, and bury me the next.
Ceres' blessing so is on you.
I see you're angry:
To set a form upon that indigest
So she may live unscarr'd of bleeding slaughter,
And that, without delay, their arguments
Our peace we'll ratify; seal it with feasts.
Is more vindicative than jealous love:
Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
And will not use a woman lawlessly.
Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes my
I have a tree, which grows here in my close,
Why, then I would not fly. Ah, Montague,
I thank you, sir,
Double, double toil and trouble;
I'll know
for your honest care: I will speak with you further anon.
I had rather than forty shillings I had my Book of
Ay, so the turn were served.
Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?
SCENE II. A prison.
Is he a lamb? his skin is surely lent him,
Then go thou forth;
Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought;
I say again, hath made a gross revolt;
Therefore, brave conquerors,--for so you are,
Enter MICHAEL
Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
In any breast of strong authority,
Trinculo, run into no further danger:
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
Dismantle you, and, as you can, disliken
Fly, father, fly! for all your friends are fled,
Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.
To send the old and miserable king
therefore the sadness is without limit.
Self against self: O, preposterous
Why then it sorts, brave warriors, let's away.
I will be here again, even with a thought.
Was like to be the best.
For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
Laden with gold; take that, divide it; fly,
a fancy that he hath to strange disguises; as, to be
The hateful mansion.
That is, a woman; if you be more, you're none;
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
Orlando.
it is no matter; thyself upon thyself! The common
Exit
That comes before his eye. This is a practise
Had squared me to thy counsel! then, even now,
And never interrupt you.
Hector bade ask.
The unguarded Duncan? what not put upon
desert before his birth, and, being born, his addition
Sir Hugh is there, is he?
He never gave commandment for their death.
Why come you not? what! multitudes, and fear?
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
How say you, madam, are ye so content?
The pride upon them, that their very labour
As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift!
Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,
For thou, poor man, hast drown'd it with thine own.
Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,
PRINCE HENRY draws it out, and finds it to be a bottle of sack
Stand all apart,
Are melted into air, into thin air:
Enter TUBAL
May a free face put on, derive a liberty
Exit an Officer
I, sir? I never saw her till this time.
As well might poison poison! Be revenged;
hour: observe him, for the love of mockery; for I
Are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd.
Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father:
Enter, to his tent, KING RICHARD III, NORFOLK, RATCLIFF, CATESBY, and others
Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business,
look after it.
You cannot derogate, my lord.
Exeunt
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world,
The general, subject to a well-wish'd king,
Made many princes thither frame,
I think she'll sooner prove a soldier
'I have already chose my officer.'
Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,
Your colder reasons.
O God, she comes!
I see a good amendment of life in thee; from praying
A Roman with a Roman's heart can suffer:
The night is long that never finds the day.
Hold your hands,
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer:
France friend with England, what becomes of me?
Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;
When thou hold'st up thy hand: O, let me kiss
In deputation left behind him here,
his heart, upon the river of Cydnus.
ere your grandsires had nails on their toes, yoke you
And I, as fits my nature, do obey you:
'Tis not an hour since I left him well:
I may not prove inferior to yourself.
one sorel.
Re-enter Servant
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
Sir, grieve not you; you are welcome notwithstanding.
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts:
Three Dukes of Somerset, threefold renown'd
Not you, my brother, with your true sword drawn,
Let's to bed, knight. Thou hadst need send for
The wreck of all my friends, nor this man's threats,
With true observance seek to eke out that
Their rotten privilege and custom 'gainst
Nay! prithee, woman,--
That by your virtuous means I may again
Therefore, stand up; and, for these good deserts,
I would I had some flowers o' the spring that might
An if they live, I hope I need not fear.
My learn'd and well-beloved servant, Cranmer,
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates;
Go, presently inquire, and so will I,
Write from us to him; post-post-haste dispatch.
Therefore by law thou art condemned to die.
By some discretion, that discerns your state
That hath dishonour'd all our family;
Before me! look, where she comes.
Out, loathed medicine! hated potion, hence!
Shall Lewis have Blanch, and Blanch those provinces?
Have lost my daughter.
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,
Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello,
O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,
You bless me, gods!
When we were happy we had other names.
ANTIPHOLUS
born to do me shame.
married the yeoman of the wardrobe.
To me and to the state of my great grief
thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell. When
From whence, I think, you are come by miracle.
A man, a prince, by him so benefited!
Yea, brother Richard, are you offended too?
Flourish of cornets. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Bring it after me.
fall enraged him, or how 'twas, he did so set his
Here stand a pair of honourable men;
Would you not deem it breathed? and that those veins
The third of the five vowels, if you repeat them; or
No more such wives; therefore, no wife: one worse,
I am scarce in breath, my lord.
I ne'er saw Syracusa in my life.
We may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
Blotting your names from books of memory,
Here the lady sings a Welsh song
It is not his, my lord; here Southam lies:
How is it with our general?
She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house,
Fled to England!
The duke is virtuous, mild and too well given
And doubt you not, right noble princes both,
That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner:
Not that I know.
How now! why start'st thou? what, doth
To murder her I married.
The blood and courage that renowned them
That wails her absence?
I hope you will not mock me with a husband.
As shall become your highness; where you may
Enter a Messenger
of so much money, be now a gainer? Good body, I
So will I	if he come under my hatches, I'll never
Until our stars that frown lend us a smile.
For slander lives upon succession,
Exeunt
Have comfort, lady.
Descend to darkness and the burning lake!
Exit
Sink in apple of his eye.
And with a blessed and unvex'd retire,
Spoke like an officer; ha' to thee, lad!
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
What say you to young Master Fenton? he capers, he
you're ready:
Some proper man, I hope: who was it, mother?
And not protract with admiration what
Unfriended, new-adopted to our hate,
he be angry indeed.
You stand against anointed majesty.
Dashing the garment of this peace, aboded
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
Nay, I have offer'd all, I have no more;
Believe me, on mine honour,
Your partner, as I hear, must die to-morrow,
Even as her appetite shall play the god
By an Athenian eunuch to the harp.'
Thy kingly doom and sentence of his pride.
Say you can swim; alas, 'tis but a while!
Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
From sincere motions, by intelligence,
I am sorry
any thing which professed to make him rejoice: a
And deeper than oblivion we do bury
not.
Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more,
Between the constant red and mingled damask.
But didst thou see them dead?
Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tents,
pity: yet I'll tarry till my son come; he hallooed
And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
She said so: I must needs report the truth.
gold, wrought with flowers, bearing QUEEN
Prithee, put up.
base, proud, shallow, beggarly, three-suited,
Enter LEWIS and his train
And, as you trip, still pinch him to your time.
O hateful error, melancholy's child,
Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern
Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see
French knight that cowers i' the hams?
Give me the iron, I say, and bind him here.
Go where you will, the king shall be commanded;
Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse more strange
But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
What valour were it, when a cur doth grin,
Till then, my noble friend, chew upon this:
Favours, by Jove that thunders!
As being well content with that alone.
Fire and brimstone!
I prithee now, lead the way without any more
Kings are earth's gods; in vice their law's
There saw you labouring for him. What was't
Her natural posture!
knaves, his hinds, were called forth by their
Shall I forget myself to be myself?
Look, how he makes to Caesar; mark him.
Do you cry, 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and
concavities of it is not sufficient; for, look you,
Disguising what they are.
I may not, madam:
'Tis not the difference of a year or two
My lord, you have my voice to it; the fault's
Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought
So often shall the knot of us be call'd
I had rather be their servant in my way,
The better for him: would I were so too!
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,
Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.
Have I my pillow left unpress'd in Rome,
engines for my life.
For undertaking so unstaid a journey?
Lies down and sleeps
for't, he will supply us easily; if he covetously
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
The king and queen there! that they were, I wish
Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from thee
I bought and brought up to attend my sons.
For well you know here comes in embassy
Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their
You do impeach your modesty too much,
And know themselves and you.
Have done offence, I take the fault on me:
But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
Spare England, for it is your native coast;
than to be beadle. But, master, I'll go draw up the
And with your blood and it I'll make a paste,
But to your wishes' height advance you both.
a beggar: Cressida was a beggar. My lady is
How I shall take her from her father's house,
Cannot amount unto a hundred marks;
I do fear, too dreadful:
Besides, our nearness to the king in love
Hang 'em! They say!
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
And bear her women from the monument:
Is done unto thy hand: the last she spake
Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
From Tamworth thither is but one day's march.
Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day;
That time and place with this deceit so lawful
Though I show ill in't. So I take my leave.
Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums,
face me. Give me a cup of sack: I am a rogue, if I
Merely awry: when he did love his country,
Well, 'tis done:
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
Than a delightful measure or a dance;
Prison, my lord!
That the graves all gaping wide,
Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
freedom: but you are all recreants and dastards,
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
The owl shriek'd at thy birth,--an evil sign;
His child, I wis, to incest bring;
Keep the door close, sirrah.
My babes were destined to a fairer death,
Here they fight, and JOAN LA PUCELLE overcomes
Was timed with dying cries: alone he enter'd
Mark you that?
The better part of ours are full of rest.
jump the after inquiry on your own peril: and how
When time hath sow'd a grizzle on thy case?
And found at sea again! O Helicanus,
And like a peacock sweep along his tail;
That blood already, like the pelican,
I will keep still with my philosopher.
I mean, Hortensio is afeard of you.
Exit Boy
The gods make this a happy day to Antony!
This murder had not come into my mind:
robes, burning, burning. If thou wert any way
Another tell him of his hounds and horse,
This day all quarrels die, Andronicus;
Wherein--let no man hear me--I take pride,
Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance.
Have I not heard great ordnance in the field,
do against a monarch! you may as well go about to
At each his needless heavings, such as you
Excitements to the field, or speech for truce,
Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings,
God and our innocency defend and guard us!
the morning; and so, good morrow, Peto.
I trust I shall. My women, come; you have leave.
Who was enroll'd 'mongst wonders, and when we,
How now, Trojan!
I think you have hit the mark: but is't not cruel
There, Leonato, take her back again:
We shall all be shent. Run in here, good young man;
And give it food. There is an old poor man,
Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.
Both which I have had: but their date is out, and
That in the way of loyalty and truth
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Gentlemen
And let your reason with your choler question
call fair. She is drowned already, sir, with salt
The household of the king.
Himself would lodge where senseless they are lying!
I have so; because it is an open room and good for winter.
Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
of the infinite flatteries that follow youth and opulency.
Then there is no true lover in the forest; else
A blessed soul doth in Elysium.
Weigh'd not a hair of his. Plague of your policy!
Why, Marcus, so she is.
as promising her marriage, and things which would
No man but prophesied revenge for it.
What doth move you to claim your brother's land?
do not, call me villain and baffle me.
is enough to be the decay of lust and late-walking
And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little,--
Good time of day unto my gracious lord!
The word, 'Me pompae provexit apex.'
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispersed and fled.
Fare you well.
He shall well know
Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs
That tends to vice in man, but I affirm
Like one I loved indeed. What were thy friends?
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
O Lord! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son!
Nay, task me to my word; approve me, lord.
So sweet was ne'er so fatal. I must weep,
Captain of our fairy band,
Marry, and shall. But how now, Sir John Hume!
And others, when the bagpipe sings i' the nose,
Enter KING HENRY VI, disguised, with a prayerbook
Have you scored me? Well.
It serves you well, my lord, to say so much.
Out with that too; it was Eve's legacy, and cannot
Justice design the victor's chivalry.
That draw his knives i' the war. Well, I will find him
Should notwithstanding join our lights together
Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;
Howe'er you lean to the nayward.
In all her best array bear her to church:
This is a man's invention and his hand.
And yielding to another when it blows,
What do you mean?
He's beat from his best ward.
And not deface your honour with reproach?
I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
From him I have express commandment
rather hear the tabour and the pipe: I have known
Dance. Then exeunt all except DON JOHN, BORACHIO, and CLAUDIO
Or tie my treasure up in silken bags,
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
Her brother's noontide with Antipodes.
This valley fits the purpose passing well.
that way: but nobody but has his fault; but let
And on that day at noon whereon he says
their adversaries. Have you an army ready, say you?
With blood of thine already.
They had such courage and audacity?
The king himself; who, Douglas, grieves at heart
SCENE IV. The same. A street.
indeed, only for that cause they have been most
Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
Of disposition gentle, and of wisdom
A precious ring, a ring that I must use
A most intelligencing bawd!
O, peace! the friar is come.
Nay, then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear,
She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to
And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.
Whiles we stood here securing your repose,
You do not hold the method to enforce
A vessel of our country richly fraught:
Sharp enough,
Who calls?
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
A sovereign shame so elbows him: his own unkindness,
Away! I will not have to do with you.
Now, princes, for the service I have done you,
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
comes that the wenches say 'God damn me;' that's as
fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to
I am the most unhappy woman living.
I will seek him, sir, presently: convey the
Sir, it is
A husband! a devil.
Let no fair be kept in mind
I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
Enter GOWER
But him outlive, and die a violent death.
mines; the Duke of Gloucester would speak with you.
Exit
I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there:
O, by no means,
Will you lead, lords?
Who had the world as my confectionary,
Why, none but mine own people.
So puts himself unto the shipman's toil,
Despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune,
To win this easy match play'd for a crown?
Enter KING LEAR and Fool
And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here
Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,
Slain, sir, doubtless.
I freely told you, all the wealth I had
O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
As may appear by Edward's good success,
Tell me truly.
He is gone, indeed.
Where I intend holy confession.
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
And their rough carriage so ridiculous,
should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare
Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he.
And gives to every power a double power,
How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
I'll to dinner.
But this is worshipful society
Should perish by the sword! And I myself,
He will awake my mercy which lies dead:
So is the equal of this fell war.
Both dame and servant; welcomed all, served all;
Was John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster;
Enter SCALES upon the Tower, walking. Then enter two or three Citizens below
[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
you speak. But, if ever the duke return, as our
Against yourself.
My will is something sorted with his wish.
But in the other's silence do I see
Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
Upon the number'd beach? and can we not
Where are thy children? wherein dost thou, joy?
SCENE I. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
And then go to my inn and dine with me?
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.'
So, when this loose behavior I throw off
You'll find a most unfit time to disturb him:
And him to Pomfret; where, as all you know,
A heavy reckoning for you, sir. But the comfort is,
My matter is so rash: there is at hand
and by such two that would by all likelihood have
Though other things grow fair against the sun,
Let go my hand.
They offer to bind Dromio of Ephesus
Even in your armours, as you are address'd,
In what particular thought to work I know not;
And make a moral of the devil himself.
Your worship's friend and Launcelot, sir.
hindered me half a million; laughed at my losses,
But not deliver'd. O, hear me breathe my life
And therefore, lords, since he affects her most,
Inform on that.
A very gentle beast, of a good conscience.
why I do call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
But when your carters or your waiting-vassals
When I to feast expressly am forbid;
Her true perfection, or my false transgression,
He! no, she'll none of him; they two are twain.
If thy revenges hunger for that food
'Item: She can sew.'
Exeunt
[Aside]  If I find him comforting the king, it will
Prithee bring him in; and let him approach singing.
and make him good friend to the people!
A mother only mock'd with two sweet babes;
press-money. That fellow handles his bow like a
Pushes OSWALD out
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul: here
O, give me pardon,
To ashes, ere our blood shall quench that fire:
You must forget to be a woman; change
For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith,
No, my good lord, Diana.
As mines of India. Shall I tell you, cousin?
cock, with your comb on.
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge;
Approacheth, to confer about some matter.
Her silver visage in the watery glass,
O me, O me! My child, my only life,
Beware the ides of March.
nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do
I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius,
The sorrow that I have, by right is yours,
lord: whom I serve above is my master.
Than gain which darkens him.
And tell you what I know.
Is of a sudden thus advanced in Rome?
There's some conceit or other likes him well,
is a figure in rhetoric that drink, being poured out
Exeunt
By calmness or by absence: all's in anger.
Even at the crying of your nation's crow,
Has only sent his present occasion now, my lord;
And talk'd apace; and in that hour, my lord,
Makes speed to catch the tiger; bootless speed,
His bruised helmet and his bended sword
How went he under him?
If your ladyship would say, 'Thanks, Pompey,' I had done.
quickly: she'll make you amends, I warrant you.
Of gallowglasses and stout kerns
I'll through and through you! and, thou great-sized coward,
Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!
And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
However they have writ the style of gods
For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself
But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
Their pleasures here are past, so is their pain.
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,
Now, divine air! now is his soul ravished! Is it
whom I am bound to.
ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me,
Writing destruction on the enemy's castle?
O kiss me through the hole of this vile wall!
This queen, worth all our mundane cost.
capacity and breeding; his employment between his
I do extend him, sir, within himself,
But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate;
Yet say I, he is in love.
You say, that you'll have Phebe, if she will?
And wear a golden sorrow.
The children live, whose parents thou hast
O world, thou wast the forest to this hart;
In peace there's nothing so becomes a man
You, sirrah, that knew me for a fool, a coward,
It cannot be but he was murder'd here;
They are.
When we have soil'd them, nor the remainder viands
I'll make him send for Lucius his son;
Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
Try fortune with him in a single fight.
No, pray thee.
Is it the king?
Put forth toward Phrygia; and their vow is made
Music of the hautboys as under the stage
And make 'em reel before 'em. No man living
Each battle sees the other's umber'd face;
accept his service.
Shall I do such a deed?
Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings.
By fair persuasions mix'd with sugar'd words
That robb'd Andronicus of his good hand;
To Epidamnum; till my factor's death
At Pentapolis the fair Thaisa.
Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
The charges of our friends. Ye Roman gods!
Here's another ballad of a fish, that appeared upon
So much as of a thought of ill in him.
though this knave came something saucily into the
of gold for thee: if the gentlewoman that attends
[To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS]  Though you did love
And yield to mercy whilst 'tis offer'd you;
That gave thee life, when well he might have
O, sir, she makes no doubt of that.
I will swear by it that you love me; and I will make
would drown myself for the love of a guinea-hen, I
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
Exempted be from me the arrogance
The Lord Grandpre.
A stone.
ballads; we'll buy the other things anon.
By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o'
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
Take him up gently and to bed with him;
But never saw before; of whom I have
Wherefore is this?
cousin Shallow.
Through you, increase our wonder and set up
Upon advantage.
I'll follow and inquire him out:
shines; I'll make a sop o' the moonshine of you:
I had no mind
Exit Launcelot
You may deny me; but I'll be your servant,
To do you justice, make them ministers
monstrous villain!
Injurious duke, that threatest where's no cause.
Or shall we bite our tongues, and in dumb shows
Crack my clear voice with sobs and break my heart
Envenom him with words, or get thee gone
horns together, like any deer i' the herd.
And let her speak of me before her father:
And yet, in faith, it is not; his present want
Will prove too bloody, and the end of it
I that do bring the news made not the match.
The table round.
Shall come against him.
Your knee, sirrah.
Myself of many I am charged withal:
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
And thinking of it makes me cry 'alas!'
She has robb'd me of my sword.
For, I presume, brave Hector would not lose
Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
affection to your honour, and to no further
Alack, bare-headed!
If happy England's royal king be free.
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
Why, no; no more than reason.
Obedient as the scabbard. What is here?
Achilles bids you welcome.
Wherein I seem unnatural: desire not
Nay, come, again.
What is it then to me, if impious war,
And I will take up that with 'Give the devil his due.'
Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us;
Truly, sir, all that I live by is with the awl: I
than follow him like a dwarf.
That even our love durst not come near your sight
Urge me no more, I shall forget myself;
Than to perform it first.
Amen.
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
Her dotage now I do begin to pity:
Peaceful and comfortable!
I stand dishonour'd, that have gone about
Hang him, dishonest rascal! I would all of the same
The seal I keep: and so betide to me
He did bespeak a chain for me, but had it not.
live cleanly as a nobleman should do.
Ourself, my lord protector and the rest
In parcels as I did, would have gone near
So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish.
And, being help'd, inhabits there.
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
Let her not say 'tis I that keep you here:
So is she heir of Naples; 'twixt which regions
Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander.
a fool to make me merry than experience to make me
Your strong possession much more than your right,
What is it?--Coriolanus must I call thee?--
This head of safety; and withal to pry
she will find the error of her choice: she must
Thou hast undone our mother.
Dull thing, I say so; he, that Caliban
How have the hours rack'd and tortured me,
Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man;
I'll lock thy heaven from thee.
Excuse; it is to beat usurping down.
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
A shepherd's daughter.
Means he not us? I partly know him: 'tis
That, having this obtain'd, you presently
For one commanding all, obey'd of none.
What! he did not?
Is once to be resolved: exchange me for a goat,
Her will, recoiling to her better judgment,
And by his side his fruit of bastardy.
I went to her in white, and cried 'mum,' and she
As of a father: for let the world take note,
And, being no more in debt to years than thou,
I do, I pray God my girdle break.
O misery!
And on this north side win this cape of land;
shower of rain as well as Jove.
From her propriety. What is the matter, masters?
then thy manners must be wicked; and wickedness is
What says the married woman? You may go:
I am come
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
is wise:' 'Certain,' said she, 'a wise gentleman.'
Your beauty: which did haunt me in my sleep
Where Caesar's is not; but, near him, thy angel
She Phebes me: mark how the tyrant writes.
SONG.
live. My lady would not lose him for more than I'll say.
That England shall couch down in fear and yield.
sometimes by chance: let me pocket up my pedlar's excrement.
Ay, madam.
God save the king! although I be not he;
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Please you, draw near. Louder the music there!
To see thy noble uncle thus distract?
Before the child himself felt he was sick:
price of pork.
Pray God it be, sir.
I long to hear him call the drunkard husband,
stars with oaths,
I have yielded:
'Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ'd;
He says so, Tranio.
And draw their honours reeking up to heaven;
Gramercies, lad, go forward; this contents:
Were testimonies against his worth and credit
Good my mother, peace!
You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.
How goes the night, boy?
star, or at an earthquake, 'twould mend the lottery
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
Stay:
We do exhibit to your majesty.
And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
From thine invention, offers: women are not
No? What needed, then, that terrible dispatch of
Dost thou prate, rogue?
That he which is was wish'd until he were;
How now, how now! what's the matter?
If, as his nature is, he fall in rage
A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,
No, not a grize; for 'tis a vulgar proof,
To others' eyes; nor doth the eye itself,
houses over your heads, ravish your wives and
Where is my other life? mine own is gone;
understand them.
to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
Let it not, Brutus.
Presumptuous priest! this place commands my patience,
Admired Miranda!
Come, come you talk.
Sound Trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and SOMERSET, on the terrace
The name thou owest not; and hast put thyself
Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty,
For this play at this time, is only in
Come, enough.
My heart can lend no succor to my head.
Between that love a woman can bear me
I thought it princely charity to grieve them.
The act of order to a peopled kingdom.
Thy hateful life.
My body round engirt with misery,
As you have been; that's for my country:
the theatre, I am no true man.
This Lodovico is a proper man.
Upon a tawny front: his captain's heart,
Do as I bid you. Where's this cup I call'd for?
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,
So it must fall out
Thou shouldst attempt it. Come now, keep thine oath;
Mark but my fall, and that that ruin'd me.
By your patience, Aunchient Pistol. Fortune is
And come now to create you Duke of York.
And stain my favours in a bloody mask,
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
If he dislike it, let him to our sister,
Upon my back, to defend my belly; upon my wit, to
Your special mandate for the state-affairs
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner:
After defunction of King Pharamond,
The master-cord on's heart!
'Caesar, beware of Brutus; take heed of Cassius;
without any.
Cleanse the foul body of the infected world,
How does his highness?
let him take her simply; the wealth I have waits on
conscience, la!
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, REIGNIER, and others
My Lord Aumerle, is Harry Hereford arm'd?
Now breathe we, lords: good fortune bids us pause,
If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly,
Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees,
Thy father's father wore it,
Nor wittingly have I infringed my vow.
My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post,
Of hot and cold, he was nor sad nor merry.
Away, I say!
In that which seems so.
But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl.
For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more.
I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught: I
Sirs, take up the corse.
Helen, it is not so.
Only, good master, while we do admire
So perfect and so peerless, are created
By those that know the very nerves of state,
Want mercy, if I do not join with him:
Not know me yet?
like my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter we
We have again. Remember, sir, my liege,
Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
I prithee, and I'll pay thee bounteously,
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
belongs to reason; and canst use the time well, if
If any spark of life be yet remaining,
Hector! the gods forbid!
All in an hour.
Is't Cade that I have slain, that monstrous traitor?
Who by his prowess conquered all France:
It rested in your grace
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
Within six hours they will be at his aid.
Say, lord chamberlain,
Sound trumpet; Edward shall be here proclaim'd:
tell you you have good faces. If you see this in
By my penny of observation.
Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,
Sound to this coward and lascivious town
To have practised more the whipstock than the lance.
Cannot endure my absence.
Unto the prince's heart of Calydon.
Well, Angelo, your evil quits you well:
Come, I have heard that fearful commenting
I carried from thee, dear; and my true lip
And, notwithstanding all this loss of blood,
The world was very guilty of such a ballad some
But shall I live in hope?
And the device he bears upon his shield
I caused you write, yet sent away?
I'll meddle nor make no more i' the matter.
Maintain a mourning ostentation
My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
Is that she is intolerable curst
On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
he must be weighed rather by her value than his own,
were married. Here comes Beatrice. By this day!
Commit a thing so monstrous, to dismantle
I go to certify her Talbot's here.
No, no; by God's good grace his son shall reign.
Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end,
Like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls
And therefore frolic: we will hence forthwith,
O, sir, are you come?
which is lost be not found.
It is so. Are there balance here to weigh
Where is that slave
Nay look not so upon me; we shall hear of your
As sure, my liege, as I do see your grace.
Who m eets us here?  my niece Plantagenet
When I from Thebes came last a conqueror.
Till your deeds gain them: fairer prove your honour
of young Master Launcelot?
instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an
Not fear still to be taken: I know his heart.
Never talk on't;
Therefore our everlasting farewell take:
E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
Will we return unto thy father's house
Shaked like a coward.
Well, Brutus, thou art noble; yet, I see,
Exeunt DUKE OF YORK and QUEEN
You may partake of any thing we say:
That we the pain of death would hourly die
Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
Have you forgot me, sir?
Hew down and fell the hardest-timber'd oak.
I did.
I see the jewel best enamelled
God's will! my liege, would you and I alone,
And Suffolk's cloudy brow his stormy hate;
And yet a thousand times it answers 'no.'
I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?
Why, then, your ladyship must cut your hair.
Only for saying he would make his son
Now, brother Richard, will you stand by us?
Open-eyed conspiracy
Lovers, to bed; 'tis almost fairy time.
The courage of a woman; less noble mind
Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
And pithless arms, like to a wither'd vine
Pardon old Gower,--this longs the text.
And how thou pleasest, God, dispose the day!
And gave this sentence then;
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
His honesty rewards him in itself;
Thy temples should be planted presently
Enter ANGELO, ESCALUS, and a Justice, Provost, Officers, and other Attendants, behind
Cloten, thou double villain, be thy name,
Whom fair befal in heaven 'mongst happy souls!
going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her. A
Untainted, unexamined, free, at liberty
For matching more for wanton lust than honour,
oil that's in me should set hell on fire; he would
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
For wheresoe'er thou art in this world's globe,
Enter DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, LEONATO, FRIAR FRANCIS, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, HERO, BEATRICE, and Attendants
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and MENENIUS
Exit
Whilst I have gold, I'll be his steward still.
Music and a song: 'Black spirits,'  and c
But meditating with two deep divines;
Like madness is the glory of this life.
I now repent I told the pursuivant
When you have done, we look to hear from you.
Well, let us go together.
And pluck commiseration of his state
And that which would appear offence in us,
and keep place together than the Hundredth Psalm to
Sings
Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord,
Re-enter IMOGEN
And certainly in strange unquietness.
No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall
prison. There's but a shirt and a half in all my
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
And, Will you, nill you, I will marry you.
Nothing to think on but ensuing death:
To meet you at the Tower and welcome you.
If I have thanks, it is a dear expense:
Hail, great king!
I know what you would say: if I have known her,
Enter CYMBELINE and QUEEN
The truth of your own seeming; that you may--
To do your grace incessant services.
The weariest and most loathed worldly life
And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
The better cherish'd, still the nearer death.
And, being angry, does forget that ever
No, not so, villain; thou beliest thyself:
Nay, but, fellow, fellow,--
Come, come, we are friends: let's have a dance ere
Kill men i' the dark!--Where be these bloody thieves?--
He hath got his friend with child.
Still sleep mock'd death: behold, and say 'tis well.
Where Caesar fought with Pompey: but these offers,
think I keep thieves in my house? I have searched,
the truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedom
But comforts we despise; our size of sorrow,
And think of each thing well.
For you shall read that my great-grandfather
fledged; and then it is the complexion of them all
The black prince, sir; alias, the prince of
here comes Doctor Caius.
And take his bottle from him: when that's gone
If thou do this, I'll show thee wondrous things,
A way to make us better friends, more known.
And to that end, sir, I will welcome you.
Is rusty grown: he bade me take a trumpet,
Where it should guard. O war, thou son of hell,
To thine own lips again.
No elder than a boy!
caduceus, if ye take not that little, little less
Yet for this once, yea, superstitiously,
Bring me my boots: I will unto the king.
vision. I have had a dream, past the wit of man to
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
Amongst this princely heap, if any here,
Look on't again I dare not.
Then but forbear your food a little while,
Takes the skull
DON
Will not wait pinion'd at your master's court;
So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan,
now than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness
I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men;
Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'
Saw? who?
Exeunt all but the First Gentleman
That she might admired be.
Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
with thee. Go thy ways: let my horses be well
Is so from word to word; and then you cannot,
you should have been put together with so mortal a
A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops
And equity exiled your highness' land.
Out, damned spot! out, I say!--One: two: why,
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
Outswell the colic of puff'd Aquilon:
To me she's married, not unto my clothes:
That caused a lesser villain than myself,
And tell me, then, have you not broke your oaths?
I made no spare, sir.
it to that end: though soft-conscienced men can be
ANTIPHOLUS
Throng to the bar, crying all, Guilty! guilty!
That is to see how deep my grave is made;
That has a name: but there's no bottom, none,
Then, if we lose this battle,
And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
I had as lief have my mistress a jade.
What bloody business ever.
Pray, what is't?
And you, sir, for this chain arrested me.
Lest you shall chance to whip your information
That mercy does, for calumny will sear
'Tis not the roundure of your old-faced walls
Thou hast no faith left now, unless thou'dst two;
My wife kill'd too?
Saw ye none enter since I slept?
And make her chronicle as rich with praise
For fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.
Than you should such dishonour undergo,
Kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey.
They cannot budge till your release. The king,
Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints
The ruddiness upon her lip is wet;
so: ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd:
Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master
Frighted, and anger'd worse: go bid my woman
And George, of Clarence: Warwick, as ourself,
On whom, as in despite, the sun looks pale,
Because I cannot meet my Hermia.
They all cry, 'Henry!'
dispatch us here under this tree, or shall we go
Divinest patroness, and midwife gentle
What from your grace I shall deliver to him.
And know us by these colours for thy foes,
Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.
Enter a Father that has killed his son, bringing in the body
A plague upon that villain Somerset,
Of the salt deep,
Is it a beggar-man?
Is guilty of this fault and not my son.
in some form.
And tapers burn so bright and every thing
Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones
have a coxcomb of frize? 'Tis time I were choked
Nay, that's past praying for: I have peppered two
'larum of jealousy, comes me in the instant of our
Traitors ensteep'd to clog the guiltless keel,--
For the enfreed Antenor, the fair Cressid:
And thou shalt be the third if this sword hold.
Ah, but some natural notes about her body,
On this side my hand, and on that side yours.
In all my writings: go with me, and see
Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous
My dear lord,
Exeunt
away the fool; therefore, I say again, take her away.
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
Should outlive Caesar: we shall find of him
home full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hath
A very valiant rebel of the name.
matter in the ditty, yet the note was very
Than be so
Heaven stops the nose at it and the moon winks,
Enjoys it; but in gross brain little wots
Enter ROSENCRANTZ
I shall know, sir, when I have done it.
It was his bidding: therefore, good Emilia,.
Where slept our scouts, or how are they seduced,
That approaches apace; I would gladly have him see
My liege, his railing is intolerable:
Cough, or cry 'hem,' if any body come:
Come.
I thank you, madam. Give welcome to my friend.
Hold, villain!
Things small as nothing, for request's sake only,
Allows itself to any thing.
Even women have cast off, melt thee, but be
Love's stories written in love's richest book.
To leave the Talbot and to follow us.
He wrung Bassanio's hand; and so they parted.
They are, my liege;
Every one that does so is a traitor, and must be hanged.
Nothing is good, I see, without respect:
Here at the door; I pray you, call them in.
Study his bias leaves and makes his book thine eyes,
As Falstaff, she and I, are newly met,
And on the cause and question now in hand
Black-Monday last at six o'clock i' the morning,
Nay, then, God be wi' you, an you talk in blank verse.
That ever spider twisted from her womb
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
the meeting of the two kings?
You wish me well.
All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
That would be ten days' wonder at the least.
lord and my niece confirms no less: therefore this
Here, wear this jewel for me, 'tis my picture;
may be said to be an equivocator with lechery:
SCENE III. A room in Capulet's house.
Mine's not an idle cause: the duke himself,
Enter VOLUMNIA
Dove-drawn with her. Here thought they to have done
and there is also another device in my prain, which
Wear thy good rapier bare, and put it home:
So many hours must I sport myself;
Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
And so rebel to judgment.
So dissolute a crew.
For he hath stolen a pax, and hanged must a' be:
A sample to the youngest, to the more mature
But yet, before we go, let's not forget
My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight,
The other yet may rise against their force.
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man;
cudgel you.
Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.
All with me's meet that I can fashion fit.
To mark me for his friend; yet, I protest,
Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
'Tis well; and hold your own, in any case,
Exit BELARIUS
Let's to the altar: heralds, wait on us:
Was set in worse than gold. They have in England
'Alla nostra casa ben venuto, molto honorato signor
Come away, servant, come. I am ready now.
And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
To LADY ANNE
And having that, do choke their service up
How they at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
No doubt they rose up early to observe
What news? what news?
Good master porter, I belong to the larder.
This night you shall behold him at our feast;
To be his evidence now.
Unless it be to think that she is by
But he would bite none; just as I do now,
The king's late scruple, by the main assent
As the Venus of the sky.
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
I pray you and beseech you that you will.
Ay, some mad message from his mad grandfather.
To still my beating mind.
Plead on her part some cause to you unknown:
Let's each one send unto his wife;
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
them all: and yet there has been earls, nay, which
And then to Leonato's we will go.
I moralize two meanings in one word.
The lady shrieks, and well-a-near
Good, very good; it is so then: good, very good;
By thee; and this thou didst return from him,
Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus
hath ta'en his bow and arrows and is gone forth to
To take the indisposed and sickly fit
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
O, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!
So soon as I can win the offended king,
Jog on, jog on, the foot-path way,
Never, never, never, never, never!
For tears do stop the flood-gates of her eyes.
methinks I have given him a penny and he renders me
If love ambitious sought a match of birth,
To the court! why, what place make you special,
a' bade me lay more clothes on his feet: I put my
She would never tell
And I may live to do you kindness if
The kings of Mede and Lycaonia,
Dance
Was like, and had indeed against us pass'd,
Doubt not
A babe is moulded. Be attent,
Exit
To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames
Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness,
The sweet which is their poison: your dishonour
And from the common'st creature pluck a glove,
Her words do show her wit incomparable;
Benedick, Don John, and all the gallants of the
This sword of mine shall give them instant way,
Pray, be counsell'd:
Now am I dead,
thy quiddities? what a plague have I to do with a
Which by the interpretation of full time
'Tis he,'tis he: O, he is grown most kind of late.
And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony
he would show most love. When yet he was but
A natural perspective, that is and is not!
In these to nature she's immediate heir,
God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
That come to hear a merry bawdy play,
Chaste and immaculate in very thought;
Marry, will I	kneel and repeat it; I will stand,
That at her hands which the king's King forbids.
I have assailed her with music, but she vouchsafes no notice.
Where thou shalt find me, sad and solitary.
pence apiece of Yead Miller, by these gloves.
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
With unhack'd swords and helmets all unbruised,
the verity of it is in strong suspicion: has the king
No, no, on my soul, it never shall be said.
How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
I prithee, speak; we will not trust our eyes
So much the more
Then for her wealth's sake use her with more kindness:
funeral: well, here's my comfort.
Upon my party! Thou cold-blooded slave,
For I do see the cruel pangs of death
Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so
If I had a mind to be honest, I see Fortune would
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah?
Lead me from hence:
And fair words to them.
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
--Handkerchief--confessions--handkerchief!--To
I wear it for a memorable honour;
No.
SCENE III. Tyre. An ante-chamber in the palace.
Ay, you spake in Latin then too; but 'tis no
get the learned writer to set down our
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts;
'Aroint thee, witch!' the rump-fed ronyon cries.
For raising this sea-storm?
SCENE I. A room in the prison.
I got a promise of this fair one here
Why stops my lord, shall I not hear my task?
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
Whilst I, with those that have the spirit, will haste
With such bedecking ornaments of praise?
What I can do I will; and more I will
It is a fault that springeth from your eye.
And twenty glow-worms shall our lanterns be,
In brief, sir, study what you most affect.
[Aside to NORFOLK]             Not to speak of:
When we have march'd our rackets to these balls,
No other harm but loss of such a lord.
I'll go no more:
honour! You will not do it, you!
But that I seek occasion how to rise,
Are you not a strumpet?
Struck me, that thought to stay him, overboard,
Smilest thou?
The daughter of a king, our wife, and one
Via, goodman Dull! thou hast spoken no word all this while.
Or from our masters?
Your sudden approbation.
To MARCIUS
woo me: at which time would I, being but a moonish
My hazards still have been your solace: and
And I will sit as quiet as a lamb;
Madam!
of my mouth, ere it is made and finished. I speak
SCENE II. A room in the prison.
dangerous thing; and every man that means to live
The breast of heaven, I did present myself
And thorough this distemperature we see
This is the last: so we will home to Rome,
Nay, I will win my wager better yet
[Snatching it]  Why, what's that to you?
Think of this, good peers,
Of roaring terrors; for the effect of judgment
I am much bound to you.
Nothing but papers, my lord.
though I am not bookish, yet I can read
And still proclaimeth, as he comes along,
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
Madam, with much ado:
Nor set down aught in malice: then must you speak
All dues be render'd to their owners: now,
are almost set in thy head.
Hath willingly departed with a part,
person, kneeling at our feet, but a weak and
'Tis true, most worthy signior;
Hot livers and cold purses.
Shakes so my single state of man that function
Exeunt COUNTESS and Gentlemen
So much against the mettle of your sex,
The gods to their dear shelter take thee, maid,
and discourse grow commendable in none only but
What if he had said 'widower AEneas' too? Good Lord,
for he both pleases men and angers them, and then
How can we aid you with our kindred tears?
Signior Hortensio, I have often heard
ANTIPHOLUS
Am bold to show myself a forward guest
Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith:
Would think upon you for your voices and
ever before. Give me thy hand, Roderigo: thou hast
With a light heart; trust not my holy order,
Whose tongue?
This tune goes manly.
Sir, I did never win of you before.
hostess of the tavern a most sweet wench?
One aloof stand sentinel.
and a good jest for ever.
Ay, so well, that you must be her master,
precious diamond that is, nor you the lady.
If she confess that she was half the wooer,
And leave you naked.
Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers,
To bring him here alone; although perhaps
untied and every thing about you demonstrating a
Amongst much other talk, that very time,
could not discover, these shallow fools have brought
Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior
Ye're long about it.
That will prove awful both in deed and word.
Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on.
Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet say
you rude rascals?
and Thisby whisper.
Already to their wormy beds are gone;
great abatement of kindness appears as well in the
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
Be ruled by him.
into a desperate assurance she will none of him:
Have,' said she, 'given his mistress that confection
I serve you, madam:
Thy hand once more; I will not loose again,
Sweet, except not any;
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
To do no contrived murder: I lack iniquity
And nought esteems my aged eloquence:
Great Coeur-de-lion's heart was buried,
I have tremor cordis on me: my heart dances;
We know your drift: speak what?
Make poor men's cattle break their necks;
very often like a knight; and, generally, in all
Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with
I like it well that our fair queen and mistress
Farewell: yet, soft! Hector! take my leave:
Contain thyself, good friend.
Hold, Richard, hold; for we have done too much.
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
Do scald like moulten lead.
Which scorns a modern invocation.
Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel,
Enter SATURNINUS with AARON
Which trust accordingly, kind citizens,
taunt of one that makes fritters of English? This
To RICHMOND
Treachery! Seek it out.
Lord hastings was to her for his delivery?
And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter,
That now she is become as black as I.
Which I protest against--I am assisted
Sends thee this word,--that, if thou love thy sons,
Apollo. You that way: we this way.
And art thou yet to thy own soul so blind,
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
We thank you all for the great favour done,
Ay me! this tyrant fever burns me up,
one!
At the hour of nine.
How dearly would it touch me to the quick,
All that you meet are thieves: to Athens go,
loquitur; a soul feminine saluteth us.
Exeunt all but HASTINGS, RATCLIFF, and LOVEL
Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten
'Lack, good youth!
Enter ISABELLA
The gods defend me!
verse: we see it, we see it. How now, lambs?
Are you call'd forth from out a world of men
And therefore, in mine opinion, cannot have it:
No richer in return.
They mean this night in Sardis to be quarter'd;
Enter WARWICK and GLOUCESTER
of his Desdemona; who let us not therefore blame:
Book of Riddles! why, did you not lend it to Alice
And in the fountain shall we gaze so long
When thou hast hung thy advanced sword i' the air,
if I be drunk, I'll be drunk with those that have
And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy:
Look in the calendar, and bring me word.
And let me see thee in thy woman's weeds.
She hangs about his neck:
Ravish our daughters?
the bolting.
And make rough winter everlastingly.
Be this the whetstone of your sword: let grief
Enter GRATIANO
Hail, mortal!
So many of his shadows thou hast met
And she shall file our engines with advice,
I'll force thee yield to my desire.
In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame;
But that he sees the Romans are but sheep:
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
answer every man directly and briefly, wisely and
Ho, you sir! friend! Hear you, sir! speak!
she was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
Happy were England, would this gracious prince
And he ended the market.
As my trust was; which had indeed no limit,
And seek to effect it to my uttermost.
to entreat me to 't.
I'll put a girdle round about the earth
Not resolute, except so much were done;
John, here is the heart of my purpose: you are a
Are you wise?
List to your tribunes. Audience: peace, I say!
That covenants may be kept on either hand.
Sir, you are music's master.
These letters at fit time deliver me
Sound a parley
Not sick, although I have to do with death,
You have no cause.
A quarrel, ho, already! what's the matter?
In music, letters; who hath gain'd
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain,
Nothing of that wonderful promise, to read him by
Enter Attendants
Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content:
the lover's, which is all these: but it is a
supper that night.
Kind sister, thanks: we'll enter all together.
Cannot be mute,--or thought,--for cogitation
congregation, shame her with what he saw o'er night
With shining chequer'd slough, doth sting a child
Looks it not like the king?  mark it, Horatio.
Exeunt Ambassadors
I partly know the man: go, call him hither.
As violently as hasty powder fired
She is all happy as the fairest of all,
Exit PAROLLES
And manacle the bear-ward in their chains,
Fear me not, sweet lord;
To Owen Glendower: and, dear coz, to you
Exit
from Master Slender.
Exeunt
Upon this island as a spy, to win it
Awake, awake!
SCENE I. Troy. Before Priam's palace.
He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius;
The king is to be feared as the lion: dost thou
After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
glad to receive. I am confessor to Angelo, and I
prince, here is good broken music.
words. What doth he think of us?
we jest now, think you?
Exeunt
Meantime, in signal of my love to thee,
When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,
In wholesome manner.
Begin, sir; you are my elder.
Exit APEMANTUS
Exit DERCETAS
DON
What is your will?
But Moyses and Valerius follow him.
I am sure thou dost.
As beasts and birds and fishes.
Until their greater pleasures first be known
The life o' the building!
the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy
He and his toothpick at my worship's mess,
I care not what, so it be wholesome food.
Exit
And place your hands below your husband's foot:
That summons thee to heaven or to hell.
more money.
That died by law for murder of our brother,
Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
We'll slip you for a season; but our jealousy
Performance shall follow.
A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
And very rich: but thou'rt too much my friend,
I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing
Forgiveness, horse! why do I rail on thee,
Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
When willingly I would have had her here!
When your eyes roll so: why I should fear I know not,
But dust was thrown upon his sacred head:
And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
To have it added to the faults of mine,
In your waking shall be shown:
Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
If you keep covenant. Had I not brought
To think your father, by some accident,
I am not of your wrong. Therefore in him
Within this hour I was his bondman sir,
Some must go off: and yet, by these I see,
The course of true love never did run smooth;
Enter PISANIO
Consign to thee, and come to dust.
Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him
thing, Nerissa, ere I'll be married to a sponge.
Why dost thou call them knaves? thou know'st them not.
Exeunt
Such a mad marriage never was before:
And then run mad indeed, stark mad! for all
And twenty times made pause to sob and weep,
My husband lost his life to get the crown;
Padua affords nothing but what is kind.
De chin.
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND and others
Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,
Large sums of gold and dowries with their wives:
Hang up your ensign, let your drums be still,
And turn pre-ordinance and first decree
Of no more soul nor fitness for the world
See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst:
Revenge, which makes the foul offender quake.
To Painter
brazier by his face, for, o' my conscience, twenty
[Reads]  'This policy and reverence of age makes
When thou mayst tell thy tale a nearer way?
While we pursued the horsemen of the north,
See suitors following and not look behind,
And in my standard bear the arms of York
If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks,
a pitch,--pitch that defiles: defile! a foul
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
And, her attendants absent, swallow'd fire.
Ay; or else 'twere hard luck, being in so
I pray you now, good master Slender's serving-man,
The insulting hand of Douglas over you,
Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
Let this dissension first be tried by fight,
Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,
And on the winking of authority
Give me audience, good madam.
I cannot be much lower than my knees.
Him will I tear out of that cruel eye,
Sirrah, I'll teach thee a speech.
But where to-morrow?  Well, all's one for that.
Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
O most bloody sight!
I can no longer brook thy vanities.
Six thousand and two hundred good esquires;
Sweet aunt, be quiet; 'twas against her will.
Which native she doth owe.
Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow
shall have two noble partners with you; the old
humour and like enough to consent. What would you
Now, by my holidame, here comes Katharina!
Nay, hear them, Antony:
I say, it is not lost.
To break into this dangerous argument,--
[Within]  Who's there?
not here thy gait.'
They are not ever jealous for the cause,
'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity.
He dares not calm his contumelious spirit
Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,
Exit
Drum heard
You mock me, sir.
Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate.
Agamemnon is a fool; Achilles is a fool; Thersites
Gathering up the pieces
For lack of tread are undistinguishable:
Where meet we?
The man is honest.
we see how mortal an unkindness is to them;
Shall we disturb him, since he keeps no mean?
Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet
Some say he's mad; others that lesser hate him
But thankful even for hate, that is meant love.
Unless my study and my books be false,
In holier shapes: for there is boundless theft
Nay, but this dotage of our general's
Set Caliban and his companions free;
As he from heaven merits it, with you
voices that I may be consul, I have here the
Is this the way?
gurnet. I have misused the king's press damnably.
What follows if we disallow of this?
my lady talk of it yesterday; and of a foolish
A bump as big as a young cockerel's stone;
I spy life peering; but I dare not say
Away, then! come, seek the conspirators.
She was, good Curtis, before this frost: but, thou
Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior:
Be thus to them.
And make death proud to take us. Come, away:
Pardon me, wife. Henceforth do what thou wilt;
No, not so much perdition as an hair
Truly, a peck of provender: I could munch your good
It stands under thee, indeed.
SCENE II. Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.
Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell:
He wants advice.
Is much upon my fashion.
be his dole! He that runs fastest gets the ring.
Translates his rivals.
Does lecher in my sight.
Masters, lay down your weapons.
I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind
amiss in them, you gods, make suitable for
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
And not have it, 'twere a paper lost,
Dost thou not know?
for consulships?
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Silence!
Flower of this purple dye,
My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of; here with
When I did speak of some distressful stroke
Give me thy hand. Who's there?
An eye-sore to our solemn festival!
The younger rises when the old doth fall.
one that no persuasion can do good upon.
Shall that victorious hand be feebled here,
soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I press me
When would you use it? pray, sir, tell me that.
revels his addiction leads him: for, besides these
With tokens thus, and thus; averting notes
But what at full I know, thou know'st no part,
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
And lands restored again be freely granted:
Mehercle, if their sons be ingenuous, they shall
O hell! to choose love by another's eyes.
Her husband being alive. Now then we'll use
And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
With fairest flowers
If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life,
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS and certain Senators
is a fool, and, as aforesaid, Patroclus is a fool.
Fear'd by their breed and famous by their birth,
Would seem in me to affect speech and discourse;
My good lord,
And not send back my messenger.
Why, I think so: I am not such an ass but I can
swear by this bottle how thou camest hither. I
My love, without retention or restraint,
What wilt thou prove?
Even so; my tale is told.
And mar the concord with too harsh a descant:
Of our own power: what think you of it?
Recantation! My lord! my master!
Some say a sore; but not a sore, till now made
Look, where they come:
Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage
Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head,
I can create the rest: virtue and she
Of bringing back the prisoner.
Finds bottom in the uncomprehensive deeps,
henceforward, upon pain of death.
Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand,
And am fall'n out with my more headier will,
Good Lord, what madness rules in brainsick men,
Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
But suck them up to the topmast. A kind of conquest
Be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath
The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
May be it is the period of your duty:
Even then that sunshine brew'd a shower for him,
I know not the contents; but, as I guess
That's able to breathe life into a stone,
I must stay his time.
Come, I'll convey thee through the city-gate;
That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
Of common-kissing Titan, and forget
Shall I return this answer to the king?
I am come to know your pleasure.
O, rare for Antony!
Here will we sit and let the sounds of music
pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry.
A rage whose heat hath this condition,
Enter TROILUS
Yea, and to marry her, if her dowry please.
That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
Indeed, no, by your patience; I'll not over the
Among which number, Cassius, be you one--
For my confections? Having thus far proceeded,--
My lodging out. Give him a livery
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
and the worst fall that ever fell, I hope I shall
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, but the days are wax'd shorter with him:
If you first sinn'd with us and that with us
First, never to unfold to any one
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
If that thy father live, let him repent
I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music,
for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on
I am more serious than my custom: you
Exit Steward
To burn the lodging where you use to lie
You may.
Ay, sir: the other squirrel was stolen from me by
Shout within
A thing of pity!
The seasons' difference, as the icy fang
To keep obliged faith unforfeited!
By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
If so, I have derision medicinable,
Is't lawful, pray you,
Preposterous ass, that never read so far
SCENE II. The same. The Presence chamber.
For I have bills for money by exchange
He is welcome too.
Nor never by advised purpose meet
wear strange suits, disable all the benefits of your
Where have you left the money that I gave you?
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stones:
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
Stand you thus close, to steal the bishop's deer?
This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
Enter DERBY to RICHMOND in his tent, Lords and others attending
Even as an adder when she doth unroll
good fortunes.
That under covert and convenient seeming
But kill'd itself much sooner.
Exeunt TRANIO, Pedant, and BAPTISTA
office to say is come, was faithfully confirmed by
That here come sacrifices for the field:
DON
I am thy prisoner: wilt thou suffer them
Till he communicate his parts to others:
Which I have done, because unworthily
this I am not certain.
Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master o' the Tiger:
Though you and all the kings of Christendom
Exeunt
And yet we strike not, but securely perish.
To him our absolute power:
Blow, villain, till thy sphered bias cheek
Put on my brows this wreath of victory,
He sought to murder: but her better stars
For, with throwing thus my head,
Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause,
The justice and the truth o' the question carries
That Anne, my wife, is sick and like to die:
hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and
No, to the dignity and height of honour
Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out;
Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight:
Swear like a ruffian and demean himself
of Kent in Germany.
Wherefore is that? and what art thou that darest
Now you have heard the truth, what say you, Romans?
Enter PUCK
Most strangely.
Exeunt
Exit
and plenteous wit and invention:--
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
But now thou seem'st a coward.
That love my friend; and that they know full well
Description cannot suit itself in words
What work's, my countrymen, in hand? where go you
retire, and the Duke of Exeter is master of the
He is return'd in his opinions; which
With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys
Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?
Yet execute thy wrath in me alone,
Awake, and tell thy dream.
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack
Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
Post you to London, and you will find it so;
Thou art proclaimed a fool, I think.
'Tis very grievous to be thought upon.
Exeunt
would make it flame again: for the nobles receive
I cleft his beaver with a downright blow:
But when they would seem soldiers, they have galls,
Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow.
man: thou shouldst neither want my means for thy
Up with my tent there! Valiant gentlemen,
The swiftest harts have posted you by land;
Well, go to; we'll have no bastards live;
She seemingly obedient likewise hath
Because here is a man accused of treason:
In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
which I hear from common rumours: now Lord Timon's
Ay, my lord.
Not yet mature, yet matchless, firm of word,
But, noble as he is, look where he comes.
Until I know this sure uncertainty,
I could be knighted.
She that was ever fair and never proud,
Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on a
On Navarre and his book-men; for here 'tis abused.
This union shall do more than battery can
ACT V
The more you beat me, I will fawn on you:
Here she is now: swear the oaths now to her that
Out, dunghill! darest thou brave a nobleman?
Nature's above art in that respect. There's your
While I shall have my life. Come, reverend fathers,
prince in the night, you may stay him.
Enter BERTRAM and the two French Lords
Exeunt PEMBROKE and STAFFORD
neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.
No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful;
It is a comforter.
Go see this rumourer whipp'd. It cannot be
My penance is to call Lucetta back
Scant not my cups; and make as much of me
I will not taint my mouth with.
Exeunt
Tut, tut!
How innocent she died; and if your love
What noise is here?
will draw a bill of properties, such as our play
This apish and unmannerly approach,
Our hap is loss, our hope but sad despair;
pavilion in the posteriors of this day, which the
O Nell, sweet Nell, if thou dost love thy lord,
In sap-consuming winter's drizzled snow,
He cried almost to roaring; and he wept
In neither aught, or in extremity.
Mend him who can: the ladies call him sweet;
Where is that ring, boy?
However he puts on this tardy form.
England ne'er lost a king of so much worth.
This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child
Why under Mars?
Never name to us; you have half our power:
Who's the next heir of Naples?
That honour which shall bate his scythe's keen edge
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK,  NORTHUMBERLAND, LORD ROSS, HENRY PERCY, LORD WILLOUGHBY, with BUSHY and GREEN, prisoners
SCENE VIII. A field of battle.
Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bring
My sword should shed hot blood, mine eyes no tears.
Who, with his shears and measure in his hand,
Enter a Second Servant
Judas I am,--
Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon!
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
Enter ANNE PAGE, with wine; MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE, following
'Twill make them cool in zeal unto your grace.
Exit
But poison'd flattery? O, be sick, great greatness,
My life stands in the level of your dreams,
shamed that was never gracious; if killed, but one
My daughter! O, my daughter!
so old to dote on her for any thing: I have years
our guests? 'tis well they are whispering: clamour
With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
And fee my friends in Rome. O negligence!
coroners of that age found it was 'Hero of Sestos.'
How!
Enter LOVELL
Agamemnon, how if he had boils? full, all over,
At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
His garments are rich, but he wears
Exeunt
1. A lively flourish of Trumpets.
And that I have possess'd him my most stay
ear, bloody of hand; hog in sloth, fox in stealth,
meet; but mountains may be removed with earthquakes
Nay, let her languish
that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for,
That, all-amazed, the priest let fall the book;
Navarre shall be the wonder of the world;
And, like a gallant in the brow of youth,
Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modest
Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
Madam, I am protector of the realm;
Forbear awhile; we'll hear a little more.
Which likes me better than to wish us one.
Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up;
Had spread their cursed deed, and honour'd name
The rightful heir to England's royal seat.
Servants embrace, and part several ways
I was sent for to the king; but why, I know not.
Madam, if you could find out but a man
and my old Venetian friend Salerio?
Nor any of the house of Lancaster?
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
you're overthrown, you're undone for ever!
If it be ne'er so false, a true gentleman may swear
Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
This is a happier and more comely time
Alas the day! good heart, that was not her fault:
Were full as lovely as is this of hers:
My father's rough and envious disposition
do you hear me, and let this count kill me. I have
Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?
O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
Than was that young and princely gentleman.
Go back again, and be new beaten home?
afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to
To oppose your cunning. You're meek and
Have I liked several women; never any
A gentleman! what gentleman?
Had I before known this young man his son,
Imogen, Imogen!
What, John Rugby! I pray thee, go to the casement,
Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves.
How he received you, let me be resolved.
It is: may it be done?
Enough to fetch him in. See it done:
This is a brave night to cool a courtezan.
To be shame's scorn and subject of mischance!
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
Ere death dare come to us? How do you, women?
under it, QUEEN ANNE in her robe; in her hair
You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
Lie like one lump before him, to be fashion'd
This sudden execution of my will.
And son unto the king, who, heavens directing,
As very infants prattle of thy pride.
O, find him! give this ring to my true knight,
But if you hunt these bear-whelps, then beware:
Thank your majesty.
pity him, they took from me the use of mine own
You both are rivals, and love Hermia;
And you. Good night, good night.
What more fearful?
I beseech your honour, give me leave: a word, and
Indeed I would be consul.
They kill him
But how, if that fly had a father and mother?
Ye light o' love, with your heels! then, if your
Enter another Messenger
[Sings]
For Warwick bids you all farewell to meet in heaven.
I heard him swear,
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
And on our actions set the name of right
Proud Saturnine, interrupter of the good
To see no pastime I	what you would have
SCENE II. A room in Titus's house. A banquet set out.
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for
So God help Montague as he proves true!
Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.
Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse
Surprised him suddenly, and brought him hither,
'Tis a strange truth.
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes;
DON
Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.
And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French:
Aside to her
And now the house of York, thrust from the crown
And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by,
Stoop, I say;
Sad Lucretia's modesty.
earl or duke, I can assure you.
An unauthorized kiss.
Small have continual plodders ever won
majesty, and your great-uncle Edward the Plack
A special virtue: for then she need not be washed
us friends; I will pursue the amity.
And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what; yet go:
touch, a quick venue of wit! snip, snap, quick and
So, if the issue of the elder son
Cannot induce you to attend my words,
Exeunt
Exit Luciana
That creep like shadows by him and do sigh
Not a whit.
Officers, what offence have these men done?
For he hath wit to make an ill shape good,
I will lay a plot to try that; and we will yet have
God save your lordship!
Which, if my augury deceive me not,
Your eyes do make no coaches; in your tears
Very bootless.
With adorations, fertile tears,
For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe.
Then take we down his load, and turn him off,
Enter DUMAIN, with a paper
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
In Rome, as well as I	mechanic slaves
I may not, verily.
Are you native of this place?
The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
Enter MONTJOY
Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido.
Ay, my lord.
with you for's oath sake: marry, he hath better
Look behind you, my lord.
Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
Come, I'll do for thee what I can; come your ways.
For I have need of many orisons
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
Speak, prince of Ithaca; and be't of less expect
The fatal colours of our striving houses:
How now, my sweet Bianca! how now! how now!
A look untender? If't be summer news,
in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
I will not answer thee with words, but blows.
An onion will do well for such a shift,
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves,
The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.
And her immortal part with angels lives.
Shakes all our buds from growing.
Orlando?
To revel it with him and his new bride.'
Lay them in gore,
That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks
With some diffused song: upon their sight,
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,
My speech and what is done, tell him he has
And bid me say to you by word of mouth--
Of that we hold an idol more than he?
Exeunt REIGNIER and MARGARET
Within the book and volume of my brain,
or, Francis, o' Thursday; or indeed, Francis, when
And so, without more circumstance at all,
Meantime receive such welcome at my hand
That he should die is worthy policy;
And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer's wrist,
And rear it in the place your father's stands.
when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won
Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven
That run i' the clock's behalf. But this is foolery:
The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope,
But answer made it none: yet once methought
Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?
BISHOP
Just death, kind umpire of men's miseries,
And when I wander here and there,
As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
Even to the disposition that I owe,
Full well shalt thou perceive how much I dare.
They, knowing Dame Eleanor's aspiring humour,
little blood they do, I'll be a curer of madmen.
That done, I will be walking on the works;
Taffeta phrases, silken terms precise,
Enter SHYLOCK and LAUNCELOT
From her his dearest one,
Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it:
By this good light, this is a very shallow monster!
'Ask me no reason why I love you; for though
sings at grave-making?
If you swear still, your recompense is still
You must perforce accomplish as you may.
Enter at one door PERICLES talking with CLEON; all  the train with them. Enter at another door a  Gentleman, with a letter to PERICLES; PERICLES  shows the letter to CLEON; gives the Messenger a  reward, and knights him. Exit PERICLES at one door, and CLEON at another
have loved the Moor. Blessed pudding! Didst thou
measure in strength. If I could win a lady at
In him, a royal prince, and many moe
Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
If you have poison for me, I will drink it.
Well, thou shalt see, thy eyes shall be thy judge,
If these be they, I know not how to wish
The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground
To curb the will of the nobility:
What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head?
And weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath,
He makes sweet music with the enamell'ed stones,
Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil,
I have myself resolved upon a course
Minion, thou liest. Is't not Hortensio?
'Tis neither here nor there.
not.
Hither to London, to be crown'd our king.
Sirs, take you to your tools. You, cousins, shall
As much I wish all good befortune you.
And left us to the rage of France his sword.
Upon her great disaster.
I will not trust you, I,
How does my bounteous sister? Go with me
After your will, have cross'd the sea, attending
Are these thy ministers? what are they call'd?
Or any token of thine honour else,
To prove him, in defending of myself,
He did ask favour.
The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
It will inflame you, it will make you mad:
I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
Besides, old Gremio is hearkening still;
Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand;
That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,
There is no day for me to look upon;
and make but an interior survey of your good selves!
'Tis done.
I stand on fire:
Roam thither, then.
As may be in the world, lady.
The party is gone, fellow Hector, she is gone; she
We drink this health to you.
Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my
Call in more women. When I am dead, good wench,
When thou wakest, let love forbid
Of thy deep duty more impression show
From fairies and the tempters of the night
Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,
With fingers long, small, white as milk;
Shall never see it but a holiday.
Against mine uncle.
And, in the lawful name of marrying,
SCENE II. Verona. JULIA'S house.
And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
Of an ensuing evil, if it fall,
Nor thine on me.
Who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth,
To your so infinite loss, so in our trifles
Make them best seen and known.
My purpose should not fail with me,
Tell him from me, as he will win my love,
Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!
Seventh sweet, adieu:
Marry, this it is, sir.
Thou gavest me poison: dangerous fellow, hence!
Enter a Post
Though not for me, yet for your vehement oaths,
I prithee, turn aside and weep for her,
The one's for use, the other useth it.
parish up again. But if the good King Simonides
Haste you again.
So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable,
Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO, meeting
Wisdom and fortune combating together,
And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles?
Hie to your chamber: I'll find Romeo
man, I am not for him: therefore, I will even take
were unhandsome; and being no other but as she is, I
And in such indexes, although small pricks
Never, never. Come, away, away!
So by my former lecture and advice,
snow-white hand of the most beauteous Lady
schooled and yet learned, full of noble device, of
Not to behold--
No unchaste action, or dishonour'd step,
Or pack to their old playfellows: there, I take it,
The famed Cassibelan, who was once at point--
And boding screech-owls make the concert full!
followers. Go you and prepare Aliena; for look
fool with child,--a dumb innocent, that could not
His equal had awaked them, and his honour,
To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
O true apothecary!
Forgive the comment that my passion made
Exeunt all but JULIET and Nurse
By all the vows that ever men have broke,
The name
Something, sure, of state,
Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift
With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money
Than is the full-wing'd eagle. O, this life
For your fair safety; so, I kiss your hand.
Be thou assured, good Cassio, I will do
Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound,
Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your
He mock'd us when he begg'd our voices.
Marry, come up, my dish of chastity with rosemary and bays!
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
Stars, stars,
Neither;'tis a woman's fault.
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
Were you in my stead, would you have heard
Enter MENELAUS and PARIS, fighting: then THERSITES
are forgiven you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
your lordship.
and in this she manifests herself to my love, and
As Cerberus at the Thracian poet's feet.
Re-enter JULIET, above
deliver you.
Let us leave here, gentlemen.
Thou dost snore distinctly;
Why, is he not with the queen?
Breed him some prejudice; for from this league
About his neck, yet never lost her lustre;
not trouble them. Come, bring away thy pack after
If you repay me not on such a day,
Or came it by request and such fair question
Before the Roman, nor to us hath tender'd
To EDGAR
Nor will you tender less.
I would be blind with weeping, sick with groans,
Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns,
My sword is drawn.
from a spider, without drawing their massy irons and
He kills her in her own humour.
Unless you will accompany me thither.
out of the 'Hundred Merry Tales:'--well this was
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
Put not another sin upon my head,
Where's the thane of Cawdor?
For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind;
Mine eyes cannot hold out water, methinks: to
Thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour;
For doing these fair rites of tenderness.
He hears with ears.
Lead their successes as we wish our own,
How canst thou make me satisfaction?
Or breed upon our absence; that may blow
Arise, and say how thou camest here.
Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters.
only his gift is in devising impossible slanders:
This Philoten contends in skill
Do you not love my sister?
So fearful were they of infection.
Nay, that's right; but why wear you your leek today?
Exit
Now will he interpret to her.
If your worship will take order for the drabs and
RICHARD
Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue
Lo, now, lo!
why the more is for your honesty.
Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you:
For thou hast given me in this beauteous face
Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want
Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar's
Yea, overshines ourself.
madman: fie on him!
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty;
Old woman! what old woman's that?
I humbly thank your ladyship.
It should not stand in thy posterity,
Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell
What's the matter?
A cause more promising
The noontide sun, call'd forth the mutinous winds,
What humble suit attends thy answer there:
What's this to my Lysander? where is he?
In this bare island by your spell;
Unheard; what then?
As misers do by beggars, neither gave to me
As now our flesh is banish'd from this land:
Ay, my lord,
I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
Engaged my friend to his mere enemy,
The yielding of her up?
To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd
That valiant Clifford, with his rapier's point,
But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
Which with usurping steps do trample thee:
Is it this, sir?
wind were but long enough to say my prayers, I would repent.
And so am I for Phebe.
No more, no more.
To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside
nearer to his reverence.
Which your disease requires.
Beseeching thee, if with they will it stands
She cannot be so much without true judgment--
Thanks and good night to the Greeks' general.
further warrant: go but with me to-night, you shall
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
And I, to blame, have held him here too long.
Thunder. Third Apparition: a Child crowned, with a tree in his hand
Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues
That mint.
What?
An if he will come to me.
What though the mast be now blown overboard,
Dull, unmindful villain,
Advances
lives; that I mean to make bold withal, and as you
Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use.
Am, for his love and service, so to him.
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
And come, Egeus; you shall go with me,
Hidest thou that forehead with a golden crown,
Is she not hard-favoured, sir?
And she shall be sole victress, Caesar's Caesar.
As bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand.
out more apparel than the man. But art not thou
Enter CAIUS MARCIUS
Ay, and for an assault too.
Used to command, untaught to plead for favour.
My lord, she's not paced yet: you must take some
Exeunt GOWER and FLUELLEN
him a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me for
to consign to.
having colour enough, and the other higher, is too
Out, tawny coats! out, scarlet hypocrite!
Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo?
And, this last night, here in Philippi fields:
Good sir, be not offended.
Not so, not so; his life is parallel'd
'Fore God, they have given me a rouse already.
get this foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough.
And throw it from their soul; though perils did
courtesy would invent some other custom of
We all have strongly sworn to give him aid;
the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
Now is this golden crown like a deep well
Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
Who, in his circumstance, expressly proves
and I paid nothing for it neither, but was paid for
A lullaby too rough: I never saw
Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club;
In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
All wanton as a child, skipping and vain,
I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now:
Where you shall host: of enjoin'd penitents
And say what thou seest yond.
immaterial skein of sleave-silk, thou green sarcenet
Or, if thou follow me, do not believe
in all my life.
That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,
your father.
Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless,
Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man.
To take 't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood,
Me tank you for dat.
He's a traitor.
My lords, before it pleased his majesty
That chase thee from thy country and expose
And would have reft the fishers of their prey,
Besides the applause and approbation To which,
'By heaven, that thou art fair, is most infallible;
Does not attend my taking. Whiles I may 'scape,
SCENE III. Bohemia. A desert country near the sea.
that Clifford's manhood lies upon his tongue.
Without the assistance of a mortal hand:
all,--we shall advise this wronged maid to stead up
What is thy name?
And sullen presage of your own decay.
Singing
Are turned to one thread, one little hair:
Soon after that, deprived him of his life;
Thou scarlet sin, robb'd this bewailing land
a wooden dagger; and they are both hanged; and so
Divide your happy England into four;
If thou do pardon, whosoever pray,
But not a niggard of your speech: how goes't?
And quite lost their hearts: the nobles hath he fined
No remedy.
None, since the curfew rung.
fain have either.
As wealth is burden of my wooing dance,
My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry;
So please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure.
Or do you almost think, although you see,
Re-enter BARDOLPH, running
Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
You have of these pedlars, that have more in them
her to-morrow in the congregation, where I should
In eye of Imogen, that best
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
Theirs for the earth's increase, mine for my sorrows?
I did appoint?
Even so must I run on, and even so stop.
The king enacts more wonders than a man,
Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
As being thought to contradict your liking,
What's in't is precious; if you are sick at sea,
Where am I? Where's my lord? What world is this?
Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
What is the matter there?
Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight?
Our simple supper ended, give me leave
To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Capitol; the Senate sitting above.
a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip
I bid them that did love their country's good
Exit
Ply Desdemona well, and you are sure on't.
If he govern the country, you are bound to him
It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
I will be master of what is mine own:
And set a double varnish on the fame
I have done.
Would have inform'd for preparation.
I' faith, sweet love, I was coming to your house.
Alas, how love can trifle with itself!
Ta'en of your many virtues, the king's majesty
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit
Both meet to hear and answer such high things.
Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over
Because that now it lies you on to speak
You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
We must awake endavour for defence;
We'll be friends first.
Sits mocking in our plumes. O merchante fortune!
When it is born in high authority:
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
This will I also wear in my cap: if ever thou come
I'll give my jewels for a set of beads,
redemption for this.
entertainest my love, let it appear in thy smiling;
It stains the glory in that happy verse
And so, good night.
As thunder threatens us: this is Marina.
Re-enter Page, with TYRREL
Off, coxcomb!
So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
As I can take it with another herb,
Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.
I see by you I am a sweet-faced youth.
SCENE IV. The heath. Before a hovel.
To sports, to wildness and much company.
me; scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must
But where is he?
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
that's mended is but patched: virtue that
him; he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his
For taking so the head, your whole head's length.
if not, thou art an Hebrew, a Jew, and not worth the
Enter a Gentlewoman
And giddy Fortune's furious fickle wheel,
And Hippolyta.
Let Diomedes bear him,
somebody had heard her talk yesterday, as I did. I
not what's spent in the search: why, thou loss upon
Why I your purse?
The heaven such grace did lend her,
With all the fierce endeavor of your wit
Said, 'twas the fear, indeed; and that he doubted
Night and silence.--Who is here?
Nor shall not, when my fancy's on my play.
And nobles bearing banners, there lie dead
Qualm, perhaps.
Throws down one mountain to cast up a higher.
Hanging is the word, sir: if
And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
Two things are to be done:
of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled,
I pray you home to dinner with me.
greatness, even to the utmost syllable of your
Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
Why, fool?
A halter pardon him! and hell gnaw his bones!
Jesters do oft prove prophets.
And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
Trim sport for them that had the doing of it.
But here must end the story of my life;
Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
This I'll do for you.
How now, master Parson! Good morrow, good Sir Hugh.
so fair and excellent ladies any thing. But let
Made my name once more noble. Now his son,
He beckons with his hand and smiles on me.
Uncle, I needs must pray that thou mayst lose;
A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,
Exit
They are all couched in a pit hard by Herne's oak,
Art thou of blood and honour?
To be thus taunted, scorn'd, and baited at:
Proceed.
A couching lion and a ramping cat,
A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger
By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.
suspect my years? O that he were here to write me
My charity is outrage, life my shame
Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse,
Did he so often lodge in open field,
Comfort forswear me! Unkindness may do much;
Shall rest in London till we come to him.
Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
You gave me this: but take it, sir, again.
Nothing so much as mincing poetry:
In each thing give him way, cross him nothing.
To bid my king and master aye good night:
A ring in chase of you: so did I abuse
Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
Doctor, your service for this time is ended;
As we are now glad to behold your eyes;
your lord's taking of this. Receive it so.
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
Get you to bed; faith, You'll be sick to-morrow
perfection of a good and particular mistress.
I would relieve her. Had you that craft, to reave
Like a false traitor and injurious villain.
Be perdurably fined? O Isabel!
Divinest creature, Astraea's daughter,
Anthony Woodville, her brother there,
he?
Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
Come, go, good Juliet,
Replying shrilly to the well-tuned horns,
If sore be sore, then L to sore makes fifty sores
Against my coming in: thou better know'st
My noble father,
Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
I will deny thee nothing.
When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
What dost thou with thy best apparel on?
And for thy life let justice be accused.
Health shall live free and sickness freely die.
Was this upon myself: what I am truly,
Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life
Give me breath.
there should be terrors in him that he should not
Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
Than Telamon for his shield; the boar of Thessaly
Give him leave, madam; he is a kind of chameleon.
henceforth eat no fish of fortune's buttering.
five marks, ready money: marry, then ginger was not
And, with my best endeavours in your absence,
Who is it thou dost call usurper, France?
Who does infect her?
And that you'ld guide me to your sovereign's court,
Sundays. Look Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
I here importune death awhile, until
Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp;
Who in rebellion with himself will have
The vapour of our valour will o'erturn them.
Yet glance full wanderingly on us.
Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,
For so your doctors hold it very meet,
How now, Master Fenton!
would think scolding would do little good upon him:
Nay, come your ways.
You shall not in your funeral speech blame us,
This was a venture, sir, that Jacob served for;
Well, sir, learn to jest in good time: there's a
This noble gentleman, Lord Titus here,
Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
day? Unless hours were cups of sack and minutes
Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
How one man eats into another's pride,
I should make very forges of my cheeks,
With most gladness:
So please your grace, the packet is not come
How strangely?
The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take
Rogue, thou hast lived too long.
monstrous watch is at the door.
I am so far from granting thy request
Throws up another skull
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
Is Silvia dead?
Cleopatra,
Exit
with warrant.
That gave the affront with them.
Enter TIMON and Attendants
'Tis very true: you were in presence then;
and quickly too. Farewell.
In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth,
and happiness takes his leave.
That I did amplify my judgment in
As thou art liege-man to us, that thou carry
puny drawer to what end he gave me the sugar; and do
To whom I am so infinitely bound.
Would he were wasted, marrow, bones and all,
I dare adventure to be sent to the Tower.
If this foul deed were by to equal it:
[Reads]  'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
have not ballads made on you all and sung to filthy
drop in his porridge.
I know none of that name, lady: there was none such
Tell me, thou unknown power,--
A husband's office? shall, Antipholus.
They embrace
Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death;
Have strain'd to appear thus: if one jot beyond
Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them?
Seemeth their conference; their conceits have wings
Swear his thought over
You'll turn a child again.
What means this noise?
By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a
If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimonies,
No, but he's out o' tune thus. What music will be in
If you will patiently dance in our round
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
With favour never clasp'd; but bred a dog.
A flourish, trumpets! strike alarum, drums!
Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep,
To glean the broken ears after the man
What, sir?
A thing not in his power to bring to pass,
I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court: our
you, to go in the song?
In carrion-flies than Romeo: they my seize
Why, what of that?
And all too soon, I fear, the king shall rue.
Seven year and a half, sir.
Whipt first, sir, and hanged after.
Loved as my father, as my master follow'd,
And for whose death we in the world's wide mouth
Thus far, with rough and all-unable pen,
four elements?
She bears a duke's revenues on her back,
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lovest,
What, stand'st thou idle here? lend me thy sword:
Unless thou wouldst grieve quickly. This Posthumus,
hot venison pasty to dinner: come, gentlemen, I hope
Re-enter EDMUND
A dance
Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen
Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk,
Accompany your hearts!
And seek their ruin that usurp'd our right?
Thou wear a lion's hide! doff it for shame,
Only for his possessions are so huge,
For speaking false in that: thou art, alone,
Our house, my sovereign liege, little deserves
Thy garments are not spotted with our blood,
O, 'tis true.
Where are your mess of sons to back you now?
I know the man. What is the sum he owes?
Most welcome, bondage! for thou art away,
With wings more momentary-swift than thought.
Bestow thy fawning smiles on equal mates,
When therewithal we shall have cause of state
a spaniel. Come your ways.
Till that his rage and anger be forgot,
Flourish. Exeunt
A chafed lion by the mortal paw,
For all my blood in Rome's great quarrel shed;
I call the gods to witness, I will choose
What's the matter?
Be valiant and give signal to the fight.
What shall be done with him? what is your plot?
What's he?
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
A jest's prosperity lies in the ear
The heir of kingdoms and another like
Shall be the label to another deed,
Signior Baptista, shall I lead the way?
As is the sucking lamb or harmless dove:
Their most absurd intents.
Which I gave him for cordial, she is served
The colour of her hair: bring me word quickly.
I am satisfied in nature,
Not a frown further. Go release them, Ariel:
To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle,
Loaden with irons wiser than the judge,
Pray God you have not murdered some of them.
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
Thou hast no hands, to wipe away thy tears:
Exeunt
And I'll believe thee.
The matter?
More than the world enjoys.
If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
Strike, drum.
Most of our city did: only myself stood out;
Who gave thee this letter?
oath before this honourable assembly, she kicked the
O, I smell false Latin; dunghill for unguem.
thou art altogether given over; and wert indeed, but
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
O Cupid, Cupid, Cupid!
breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
Fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you!
according to his cue.
Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
And though you know my inwardness and love
If I live to see it, I will never trust his word after.
wise, if Don Worm, his conscience, find no
My true preserver, and a loyal sir
Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go;
Speak, captain, shall I stab the forlorn swain?
Here lies thy heart, thy sinews, and thy bone.
I grieve to hear what torments you endured,
Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
The queen of Naples.
Therefore your best appointment make with speed;
SCENE II. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
How chance the roses there do fade so fast?
Here after excursions, enter the Herald of France, with trumpets, to the gates
Your favours nor your hate.
Exeunt
I promise you, but for your company,
furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
I thank both him and you, and pledge him freely.
That yarely frame the office. From the barge
But milk my ewes and weep.
Your letter is with Jupiter by this.
hence, and not a word; for here comes more company.
[Aside]  He lies, for I invented it myself.
We have: whereupon the Earl of Worcester
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia:
God give us leisure for these rites of love!
what she has to do, that she may not be raw in her
more condoling.
Bequeath to death your numbness, for from him
Well followed: Judas was hanged on an elder.
Alas, and woe!
More than quick words do move a woman's mind.
There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest,
Thou fond mad woman,
advised him for the entertainment of death.
What woman's man? and how besides thyself? besides thyself?
Was by the rough seas reft of ships and men,
Which waits upon worn times hath something seized
And in the instant that I met with you
despite of the flesh and the blood.
That is the butt-end of a mother's blessing:
If you say so, I hope you will not kill me.
And call upon my soul within the house;
More relative than this: the play 's the thing
And let not women's weapons, water-drops,
Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK's body
Almost forgot my prayers to content him?
What, keep a week away? seven days and nights?
Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop
So would not I	my love doth so approve him,
Let's hear our tribune: peace Speak, speak, speak.
The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colours
Hear me but speak, and bear me where you will.
Chiefly i' the world; more laugh'd at, that I should
To lighten all this isle? I'll to the king,
Is thought-sick at the act.
You have broken
But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
I will inform your father.
Exit
A phoenix that shall make all France afeard.
Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,
Your grace, that fed my country with your corn,
Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
His head from him: I'll throw't into the creek
Go then; and with a countenance as clear
Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs:
That he did buffet thee, and, in his blows,
desire to hear the fear of Got, and not to hear a
Why looks your grace so heavily today?
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
One feast, one house, one mutual happiness.
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
And, being intercepted in your sport,
Bid her come hither: go.
Thyself hast loved; and I have heard thee say
So, now bring them in, for I'll play the cook,
So that perforce you must needs stay a time.
I seem'd his follower, not partner, and
So season'd with your faithful love to me.
For all the frosty nights that I have watch'd;
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
'Twixt you and your poor brother.
Tell her, we measure them by weary steps.
Hadst thou but shook thy head or made a pause
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
To try if that our own be ours or no.
Than such that do e'en enemies exceed.
These are their brethren, whom you Goths beheld
Give my sweet Nan this ring: there's for thy pains.
That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.
It is familiar,--but at the author's drift;
Were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold?
while, which is not amiss to cool a man's stomach
he that hath learned no wit by nature nor art may
So, now you're fairly seated. Gentlemen,
Give me your hand. Come you from old Bellario?
so; if not, let him enter: if I become not a cart
And pleased with what he gets,
Ay, my noble lord.
Plays in the right hand, thus: but tell him,
me!
Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.
How now! who is it?
Born blind, an't please your grace.
I had no judgment when to her I swore.
Ay me, I am forsworn!
Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First
The most replenished sweet work of nature,
Exeunt
For me, my lords,
Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet, you!
Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy,
Now took your brother's life; or, to redeem him,
To me you cannot reach, you play the spaniel,
I prithee, Tom, beat Cut's saddle, put a few flocks
And pay the debt I never promised,
Believe so much in him, that he is young
I came to serve a king and not a duke.
Enter LYSIMACHUS
The more I have, for both are infinite.
It issues from the rancour of a villain,
'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
That headless man
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Caesar has had great wrong.
Crying, his stones, his daughter, and his ducats.
In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his majesty,
are come to search the house. Shall I let them in?
Nor is not, sure.
Enter PANDARUS
By the eighth hour: is that the uttermost?
Ay, a thousand times.
Enter OLIVER
Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin,
Enter Page
to dinner, sir, why, let it be as humours and
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary,
Is dead.
with any detection in my hand, my desires had
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
Do not torment me, prithee; I'll bring my wood home faster.
That she whom all men praised and whom myself,
Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
Is that we scarce are men and you are gods.
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
To taint his nobler heart and brain
'Tis, my good lord.
Where is the king?
Come, night; come, Romeo; come, thou day in night;
Assemble we immediate council: Pompey
And you of yours, my lord! I say no more,
When grief hath mates, and bearing fellowship.
Even as the flourish when true subjects bow
My Nan shall be the queen of all the fairies,
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
Either of you to be the other's end.
[Aside]  O heavens, this is my true-begotten father!
I charge you see that he be forthcoming.
Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son,
Why are you breathless? and why stare you so?
No quarrel, but a slight contention.
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the
When well-apparell'd April on the heel
Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her?
By uproar sever'd, like a flight of fowl
Men and men's fortunes could I frankly use
But to prorogue his grief.
To be a queen in bondage is more vile
But taking note of thy abhorr'd aspect,
Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.
Let me hire him too: here's my coxcomb.
Humbly complaining to her deity
This murderous shaft that's shot
On this removed issue, plague for her
Kisses them. IRAS falls and dies
Exeunt Launcelot and Old Gobbo
All of one nature, of one substance bred,
Hark! our drums
out of it you'll run again, rather than suffer
But since I cannot, be it known to you
If not, elsewhere they meet with charity:
I had forgot them--were two winking Cupids
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
Giving no ground unto the house of York,
Blessed are clouds, to do as such clouds do!
O, you are novices! 'tis a world to see,
Each one demand an answer to his part
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
That down fell priest and book and book and priest:
Come, shall I make you two friends? We must to
And for these great affairs do ask some charge,
And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
Being compact of credit, that you love us;
In any thing that I do know by her.
At Grecian sword, contemning. Tell Valeria,
Dies
O worthiest cousin!
Which are so weak of courage and in judgment
Wherever sorrow is, relief would be:
For through this laund anon the deer will come;
Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks;
ANTIPHOLUS
I would not be a Roman, of all nations; I had as
But soft, I pray you; did King Richard then
[Reads]  Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all
Upon what cause?
So far beneath your soft and tender breeding,
Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France;
You told a lie, an odious, damned lie;
I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty
But who comes here, led by a lusty Goth?
Enter DERBY
To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for.
And with that painted hope braves your mightiness:
Be not afraid, good youth, I will not have you:
execution: you are condemned, our general has sworn
done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
Strikes him
Exit
walk. The time when. About the sixth hour; when
Nor what ensues, but have a fog in them,
That I may speak with you, O, good my lord!
That my woe-wearied tongue is mute and dumb,
Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth
Your mother.
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
Madam, in Rome;
I am a king that find thee, and I know
How modest in exception, and withal
the physician: the most sovereign prescription in
Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
But let me see: is this our foeman's face?
about you, have you?
With most delicious poison. Think on me,
Brother, thou shalt to London presently,
We two alone will sing like birds i' the cage:
This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
As if a man were author of himself
must have that thanks from Rome, after the measure
It lends a lustre and more great opinion,
Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense;
like my lady's eldest son, evermore tattling.
Now we are victors; upon us he smiles.
What's he?
Farewell, revolted fair! and, Diomed,
For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
For every minute is expectancy
By the very truth of it, I care not for you,
That thus affect'st a sheep-hook! Thou old traitor,
For I myself at this time have employ'd him.
All tongues speak of him, and the bleared sights
Most sure she was.
And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks,
With an imperial voice--many are infect.
One, lady, if you knew his pure heart's truth,
Where is our uncle? what's the matter, Suffolk?
Heave him away upon your winged thoughts
And none so poor to do him reverence.
To nature none more bound; his training such,
Antony call; I see him rouse himself
That Suffolk doth not flatter, face, or feign.
But he loves Caesar best; yet he loves Antony:
Ducks to the golden fool: all is oblique;
You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief:
so they shall be both bestowed. I have suffered more
Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.
By my trot, I tarry too long. Od's me!
Go thou to Friar Penker; bid them both
kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
Oppose not Scythia to ambitious Rome.
SCENE II. The same. Pandarus' orchard.
Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would fain
is not show his face.
knows more of Anne's mind than I do; nor can do more
But my arrival and my wife's in safety
You clasp young Cupid's tables. Good news, gods!
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
With an eye of green in't.
This seeming brow of justice, did he win
learned by the perfectest report, they have more in
Nay, in all confidence, he's not for Rhodes.
Fast bind, fast find;
What surety of the world, what hope, what stay,
Marry sir, such claim as you would lay to your
I mean, the fashion.
Unless by robbing of your friends and us.
With horsemen, that make to him on the spur;
Give the word.
What ransom must I pay before I pass?
I have engaged myself to a dear friend,
Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand he goes
Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but
A thousand irreligious cursed hours,
Exit
better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's
SCENE IV. Before the palace.
Alas, it cried 'Give me some drink, Titinius,'
And what is music then? Then music is
We kill the fowl of season: shall we serve heaven
But to be frank, and give it thee again.
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
Nay, 'tis most certain, Iras: saucy lictors
Some six months since, my lord.
Whither away so fast?
'Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!
Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia:
The thrice-victorious Lord of Falconbridge;
I will not rise, unless your highness grant.
That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass
And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
More fit to do another such offence
Not with fond shekels of the tested gold,
Prithee, no more prattling; go. I'll hold. This is
I cannot tell; but I had as lief take her dowry with
Be humble to us; call my sovereign yours,
My mind is changed, sir, my mind is changed.
Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women,
And I the rather wean me from despair
Is a black Ethiope reaching at the sun
My blood begins my safer guides to rule;
An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it:
of harmony.
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
Why,
Thanks, dear my lord.
As if you were dismay'd: be cheerful, sir.
No, my good lord.
Do a fair message to his kingly ears?
I will believe thou hast a mind that suits
It sends some precious instance of itself
Grows elder now and cares it be not done.
Is now transported, gentles, to Southampton;
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
art thou within point-blank of our jurisdiction
Enter BRUTUS, DARDANIUS, CLITUS, STRATO, and VOLUMNIUS
Lend me your hands; to the next chamber bear her.
As, heaven it knows, I would not have him speed.
It is impossible they bear it out.
She gave me none, except an angry word.
of any thing he sees there, let thine eye be thy
But, on my honour, she was charged with nothing
You conclude that my master is a shepherd, then,
Thy lips rot off!
So Tamora:
Proceed in practise with my younger daughter;
Enter JULIET
They set upon BANQUO
May this be borne?--as if his traitorous sons,
Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she
Find such another master.
Yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear,
[To QUEEN ELINOR]  So shall it be; your grace shall
This is his claim, his threatening and my message;
That we shall stop her exclamation.
Go with me: if you like upon report
That might have mercy on the fault thou gavest him;
Is named, your wars in France: this makes bold mouths:
You would say it hath been all in all his study:
Over your friend that loves you.
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
Become the touches of sweet harmony.
Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
Master doctor, my daughter is in green: when you
And which, without desert, because thine eye
Is this the Athenian minion, whom the world
Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
When it was less expected: he replied,
Hath widow'd and unchilded many a one,
Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George,
'Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.
And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
Ha! what, so rank? Ah ha!
But you at your sick service had a prince.
you, four and twenty pound.
To show how much thou art degenerate.
That he did pace them first? All things that are,
Now, God incense him,
Thou princely leader of our English strength,
Than to be used as you use your dog?
Clear them o' the city. For myself, I'll put
A chain, a chain! Do you not hear it ring?
Amen!
His name that valiant duke hath left with thee;
Luke's, to bid the priest be ready to come against
Let AEsop fable in a winter's night;
I would have had them writ more movingly.
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
so free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition,
Thou dost o'er-count me of my father's house:
reasonable demands.
And, with that word, she struck me on the head,
SCENE VI. Rome. A public place.
Come in, come in: I'll go get a fire.
friend, as thou usest him, and thy sworn enemy,
Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crow'd,
Tempt him not so too far; I wish, forbear:
Persuades me I was better when a king;
You saw one here in court could witness it.
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
Because you talk of pride now,--will you not be angry?
'Tis the king's subtlety to have my life.
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
Ay, kennel, puddle, sink; whose filth and dirt
Exeunt
Is he of God's making? What manner of man? Is his
in the hatching,
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
God bless your grace! we see it, and will say it.
love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to
discretion, and I will right myself like a soldier.
Her estimation home.
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold
And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
To have the courtesy your cradle promised,
All, if you will; for I myself am best
Dost thou not see my baby at my breast,
But his neat cookery! he cut our roots
themselves in their own straps.
No, indeed, master.
My lord, I dare not: Sir Pierce of Exton, who
Will remain hers.
Methought it did relieve my passion much,
in love. With who? now that is your grace's part.
Now it's twenty-seven: every gash was an enemy's grave.
Kisses him
My gracious uncle--
For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
Whereof I know she is not ignorant:
Come, but one verse.
Sir,
Masking the business from the common eye
This found I on my tent this morning.
Within this half hour will he be asleep:
Will you, indeed?
Enter BIANCA
Than all you fiery oes and eyes of light.
the tadpole, the wall-newt and the water; that in
Will you encounter the house? my niece is desirous
Believe me, no: I thank my fortune for it,
To have a thankless child! Away, away!
For yet I am not look'd on in the world.
And like a bated and retired flood,
If ever Bassianus, Caesar's son,
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
Splitting the air with noise.
know me! The prince's fool! Ha? It may be I go
No man alive can love in such a sort
I have done.
turned my daughter into green; and, indeed, she is
That can do hurt.
It would make any man cold to lose.
Properly ours.
Because you know, my lord, my mother lives.
Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son
Unless I add, we are honest.
And violenteth in a sense as strong
Manifest treason!
I will fetch him.
Might be to you in Egypt: yet, if you there
SCENE III. The same.
If you come slack of former services,
I led them on in this distracted fear,
What news abroad?
And tell them that, to ease them of their griefs,
For whom my heart drops blood, and my false spirits
Five hundred ducats, villain, for a rope?
tragedians; to belie him, I will not, and more of
I'ld give it to undo the deed. O lady,
His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.
But soon that war had end, and the time's state
On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis.
And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart,
What is, my lord?
Hath begg'd that I will stay at home to-day.
I'll be with you anon.
Which in the eleventh year of the last king's reign
That Anne my wife is sick and like to die:
If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die as
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
Sir,--
To kiss and talk to. I'll have the work ta'en out,
a thousand: he had some feeling of the sport: he
My surname, Coriolanus: the painful service,
In earnest, shall I say?
Causeless, perhaps. But pardon me, sweet aunt:
Marry, sir, the pittie-ward, the park-ward, every
That likewise have we thought upon, and thus:
As in a Romish stew and to expound
'Tis so.
Enter Servant
That very hour, and in the self-same inn,
SCENE I. France. Before Angiers.
I pray you, see him presently discharged,
You find not the apostraphas, and so miss the
And fearful, as these strange eruptions are.
But come thy ways; well go along together,
Inhabits our frail blood.
And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.
Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye,
That I regard it not.
In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit,
Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed
And wakes it now, to look so green and pale
Better once than never, for never too late.
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love.
She says it is a fair one.
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
After long seeming dead, Iago hurt him,
Something particular: his coin, ships, legions,
And pay no worship to the garish sun.
I see the trick on't: here was a consent,
nor no in luck stirring but what lights on my
A dream of what thou wert, a breath, a bubble,
Together, have one dust, yet reverence,
Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
Please you, sir,
Mazed with a yelping kennel of French curs!
My lord, this is my daughter here asleep;
Exit
For pax of little price.
With her, on her; what you will.
Than violentest contrariety.
But when his fair course is not hindered,
But, soft! whom have we here?
Then not in Britain must you bide.
Let me be clear of thee.
But being play'd upon before your time,
That he is too familiar with his wife.
He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.
I'll interrupt his reading.
Patiently to bear my wroth.
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
Part of thy father may be saved in thee.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
In earnestness to see him: seld-shown flamens
Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
Which with sweet water nightly I will dew,
To fly the boar before the boar pursues,
Unto his several mistress, which they'll know
SCENE IV. A room in LEONATO'S house.
In all my lands and leases whatsoever:
Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?
This goddess, this Semiramis, this nymph,
That justice seizes: what know the laws
In hell-black night endured, would have buoy'd up,
Hath gained thy daughter princely liberty.
open thy affair.
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
How you awake our sleeping sword of war:
No marvel, though you bite so sharp at reasons,
Musings into my mind, with thousand doubts
May pierce the head of the great combatant
No, on my life.
O Henry, let me plead for gentle Suffolk!
Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now
The cruel father and his traitorous sons,
Thy place in council thou hast rudely lost.
About his funeral: and you shall speak
Shall show the better. Do not consent
I writ to's holiness. Nay then, farewell!
gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,
And we will follow.
Run to my Lord of Suffolk; let him know
Lord of my life, commander of my thoughts,
Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down: come,
And with dead cheeks advise thee to desist
Exit BIANCA
To the dark house and the detested wife.
In spite of spite, alone upholds the day.
I am bound to serve.
To make the truth appear where it seems hid,
Which ever as she could with haste dispatch,
live, forget to drink after thee.
O God! methinks it were a happy life,
Upon my lady's missing, came to me
For practising to steal away a lady,
I will ever be your head:
When weeping made you break the story off,
stolen out of other affairs; but I will attend you awhile.
Days and nights has thirty-one
His napkin, with his true tears all bewet,
Call him in.
O, forget
I saw the handkerchief.
Why, love forswore me in my  mother's womb:
To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.
Enter LUCIUS, MARCUS, and Goths, with AARON prisoner
thankful! And when she went away now, 'Let this
doubtless, and of antiquity too; bawd-born.
O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?
their particular functions and wonder at him. I
This is the most despiteful gentle greeting,
I know not what I shall think of that: but I am
Of hostile paces: those opposed eyes,
If haply won, perhaps a hapless gain;
but in the plainer and simpler kind of people, the
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
A match! 'tis done.
Enter HAMLET
An he had been a dog that should have howled thus,
Exit
wonderful. The best courtier of them all, when the
Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM
And have the dates in contempt.
Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
thoughts beget hot deeds, and hot deeds is love.
Many a morning hath he there been seen,
By'r lady, he is a good musician.
That so approve the Moor! O, let the heavens
How if a' will not stand?
To keep mine honour from corruption,
Exit CRANMER
Be what they will, may stand forth face to face,
From the great compt: but love that comes too late,
A blank, my lord. She never told her love,
Ay, and burn too.
And honour'd in their issue.
That love should of a sudden take such hold?
Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.
O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender
Pandarus,--
And much effuse of blood doth make me faint.
Evil-eyed unto you: you're my prisoner, but
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
Come on, sir; hold.
Your hand; a covenant: we will have these things set
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.
I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
I did obey, and sent my peasant home
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
monster, but an infinite loss.
And out of doubt you do me now more wrong
Emmanuel.
Desires access to you.
Is left untender'd.
may easily put it off at court: he that cannot make
Showing, as in a model, our firm estate,
Exit Lady
Re-enter Lords, with EXETER and train
To cope malicious censurers; which ever,
you shall hear music and see the gentleman that you asked for.
Ye speak like honest men; pray God, ye prove so!
Unlike young men, whom Aristotle thought
I thank your worship: I shall make my master glad
ANTIPHOLUS
to swim in. Now a little fire in a wild field were
Our woes into the air; our eyes do weep,
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make
Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
I had rather crack my sinews, break my back,
I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,
But I am doubtful of your modesties;
You'll go with us?
Exit an Attendant
Cannot thy master sleep these tedious nights?
Is't possible?
Thou mad misleader of thy brain-sick son!
Well, thou dost best.
Lords, take your places; and, I pray you all,
In bootless prayer have they been held up,
The flux of company:' anon a careless herd,
And interchanging blows I quickly shed
O noble judge! O excellent young man!
She says, you have it, and you may be gone.
To be controll'd in that he frankly gave:
Sweat in this business and maintain this war?
Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
SCENE III. Another room in the same.
To answer from our home; the several messengers
My troublous dream this night doth make me sad.
And you can witness with me this is true.
Fie, savage, fie!
I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.
A' did in some sort, indeed, handle women; but then
Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
All this was order'd by the good discretion
Aaron, what shall I say unto the empress?
Would they speak with me?
Do not believe it. Fewness and truth, 'tis thus:
And now to Paris, in this conquering vein:
you, Sir John: you owe me money, Sir John; and now
the laundress in Datchet-meat; quickly, come.
Exit
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
Sweet bloods, I both may and will.
So half my Egypt were submerged and made
You wronged yourself to write in such a case.
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
But say that he or we, as neither have,
Exeunt
Go to Ventidius.
Herein your highness wrongs both them and me.
Nor what I have done by water.
dearer father in my love.
The one as famous for a scolding tongue
You and you are sure together,
And leave my followers here to fight and die?
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
We will heal up all;
They will not stick to say you envied him,
Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
But since thou lovest, love still and thrive therein,
The reason that I gather he is mad,
We'll hear him what he says. Whence are you?
His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
For that my grandsire was an Englishman,
The walls of thy dear honour, keep unshaked
They are of Norway, sir.
Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds
Enter ROMEO and BALTHASAR, with a torch, mattock,  and c
And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries,
But to prove to you that Helen loves him: she came
An Englishman?
And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs,
that now men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing
In speed to Padua: see thou render this
By these ten bones, my lords, he did speak them to
Under thy own life's key: be cheque'd for silence,
With boot, and such addition as your honours
dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas!
And hardly keeps his men from mutiny,
In framing an artist, art hath thus decreed,
Proclaims how she esteem'd him and his virtue;
That lived amongst men.
And being fed by us you used us so
Thou say'st his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings:
I mentioned a son o' the king's, which Florizel
His valour shown upon our crests to-day
But keep it till you woo another wife,
To brave the tribune in his brother's hearing.
There is a law in each well-order'd nation
The fairest grant is the necessity.
He did, from first to last: why dost thou ask?
By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great
philosophers hold that the lips is parcel of the
Of smooth civility: yet am I inland bred
It will help me nothing
take note of it; and assure thyself, there is no
Enter LEONTES, POLIXENES, FLORIZEL, PERDITA, CAMILLO, PAULINA, Lords, and Attendants
This just and learned priest, Cardinal Campeius;
Made by some other deity than nature,
You would entreat me rather go than stay.
Thou thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell me
marry her: my villany they have upon record; which
So please your lordship, none.
Exit RODERIGO
These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,
of thunder and lightning heard.
O, burn her, burn her! hanging is too good.
her in yellow stockings, and 'tis a colour she
I do.
Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
While I sit lazy by.
We speak no treason, man: we say the king
For parting my fair Pyramus and me!
When such a one as she such is her neighbour?
is more than the salt; the hair that covers the wit
Thou bring'st good news; I am called to be made free.
Since God so graciously hath brought to light
We'll have this song out anon by ourselves: my
By Him that raised me to this careful height
Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir:
Let us come in, that we may bind him fast
Fear not, my lord, we will not stand to prate;
You speak it out of fear and cold heart.
For she is with me: no, when light-wing'd toys
once to all the points o' the compass.
servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
We cannot deal but with the very hand
No king of England, if not king of France.
is no whipstock: my lady has a white hand, and the
the grund for it; ay, or go to death; and ay'll pay
Why, know you not? the lords are all come back,
I say, my lord, that if I were a man,
What, shall I come? the hour?
by wearing his apparel neatly.
There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight;
you, coach after coach, letter after letter, gift
His broken promise, and to give this napkin
And tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
I'll well remember you.
What, art thou stiff? stand'st out?
The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,
But, O, how oddly will it sound that I
To the monument!
To do a great right, do a little wrong,
Why, Apemantus?
And learn to make a body of a limb.
Peace, I pray you.
Faints
did but try us this other day.
What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee?
Use me well in 't. Sister, prove such a wife
I am determined to prove a villain
To nothing but despair. A thousand knees
Exit COSTARD, running
Iago hath direction what to do;
Alack, why thus?
But she is arm'd for him and keeps her guard
'Save you, good Sir Hugh!
Think you so?
You have heard him swear downright he was.
That is, to live and study here three years.
Exeunt
How now, Captain Macmorris! have you quit the
the king, as to be--
Keep his brain fuming; Epicurean cooks
Good day, good day.
Had you not been their father, these white flakes
A terrible and unavoided danger:
Exeunt with the body
Once, and a million!
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor; and shalt be
Domestic fury and fierce civil strife
the world at his book. I pray you, ask him some
You saw my master wink and laugh upon you?
Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal
In sign of what you are, not to reward
Who either by public war or private treason
As silver-voiced; her eyes as jewel-like
And shall the figure of God's majesty,
SCENE I. The same.
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
O, thou, whose wounds become hard-favour'd death,
By his best arrow with the golden head,
You may not come, fair princess, in my gates;
good purpose. Doth your honour mark his face?
To think my poverty is treacherous.
my hope is better, and so look to thyself. Thy
Your suit's unprofitable; stand up, I say.
But if thy arms be to no other end,
Exit, above
No, sir, nor I mean it not.
This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops,
You do the king my father too much wrong
Than some, whose tailors are as dear as yours,
As puts me from my faith. I tell you what;
A dream itself is but a shadow.
none but this.
Fenton had her; I will do what I can for them all
Must to Corioli back: send us to Rome
Cry, Trojans, cry! lend me ten thousand eyes,
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
And when the flight is made to one so dear,
Sweet prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
Hath been between this lady and this lord.
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
She that accuses him of fornication,
one; they'll find linen enough on every hedge.
Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?
what news?
to Ajax: he will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror,
Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks.
A woman of less place might ask by law:
Where life hath no more interest but to breathe!
nothing. Will you sing?
A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
His name is Barnardine.
Come on refresh'd, new-added, and encouraged;
Is very much unto the prince and Claudio,
We are the greater poll, and in true fear
I'll tell you what; I think it is our way,
Therefore change favours; and, when they repair,
Cry within
Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
And will maintain what thou hast said is false
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
Find out the prettiest daisied plot we can,
I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi.
For he's no man on whom perfections wait
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
Here's an overweening rogue!
And, as occasion serves, this noble queen
Who seem'd my good protector; and, being here,
but fortune. Coragio, bully-monster, coragio!
Your ears unto your eyes I'll reconcile.
Officious, and not valiant, you have shamed me
or strip your sword stark naked; for meddle you
Not seen of late? Grant, heavens, that which I fear
To the ambassadors of England gives
thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then
To call hers exquisite, in question more:
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Your grace must wait till you be call'd for.
You are like one that superstitiously
Now, by Saint Paul, this news is bad indeed.
Have the gods envy?
Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
I thank you most for him.
I have seen nothing.
Upon so soft a subject as myself!
O, you and I have heard our fathers say,
My idleness doth hatch. How now! Enobarbus!
Repairs him with occasion? This happy day
But one fiend at a time,
A lack, when once our grace we have forgot,
Fast foe to the plebeii, your voices might
How does your lady? and how thrives your love?
Heaven give you many, many merry days!
What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
Else, when he's found, that hour is his last.
As like almost to Claudio as himself.
A merry heart goes all the day,
Retreat. Flourish. Enter, with drum and colours, MALCOLM, SIWARD, ROSS, the other Thanes, and Soldiers
Stolen by my daughter! Justice! find the girl;
A sleeping potion; which so took effect
Trip we after the night's shade:
enjoyed nothing of Ford's but his buck-basket, his
answering: speaking is for beggars; he wears his
Trumpet sounds. Enter General and others, aloft
Heard ye not what an humble suppliant
Master of this design, did give us, with
Here in Diana's temple.
And is this all?
The proud control of fierce and bloody war,
Upon the next encounter yields him ours.
Horns winded. Enter a Lord from hunting, with his train
What hath he said?
Caius, coming. If he do, i' faith, and find any
To make a faithless error in your ears:
The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is
He wonders to what end you have assembled
Into this abbey, whither we pursued them:
unlettered, or ratherest, unconfirmed fashion, to
The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores,
To taste of too.
And he grows angry. Now, whether he kill Cassio,
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss
Fare you well, with all my heart.
They ravish'd her, and cut away her tongue;
Exeunt
Go thou to sanctuary, and good thoughts possess thee!
For I attend here: but I'll see you soon.
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
Proclaim them traitors that are up with Cade;
sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
And hang himself. I pray you, do my greeting.
Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever;
Pluck a bard sentence: prithee, valiant youth,
Lay down my soul at stake: if you think other,
Enter the PRINCE and WESTMORELAND
With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men
What mean you, sir?
This is the day wherein I wish'd to fall
We'll not offend one stomach with our play.
But tell me, wench, how will the world repute me
I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,
Enter Sir William LUCY, attended; Herald of the French preceding
Ascribe we all! When, without stratagem,
But they will quake and tremble all this day.
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY
Why, villain, art not thou the carrier?
Enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, TRANIO, KATHARINA, BIANCA, LUCENTIO, and others, attendants
doth my simple feature content you?
condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness
Then with a passion would I shake the world;
Enter the Lady Abbess, AEMILIA
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Whose note full many a man doth mark,
With libbard's head on knee.
I am now from home, and out of that provision
Our innocent self: this I made good to you
SCENE I. The English camp at Agincourt.
To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
To whom I will retail my conquest won,
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
bereave you o' the deeds too, if she call your
Stay, slave; I must employ thee:
O, no doubt, my good friends, but the gods
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
However faulty, yet should find respect
Thou art a soldier only: speak no more.
No, mighty liege; therefore mistrust me not.
I pray thee, Launce, an if thou seest my boy,
The emptier ever dancing in the air,
And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
gentleman: they will along with company, for they
If I dream not, thou art AEmilia:
You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain;
Bring it, I pray you, to the Porpentine;
To cleave a heart in twain.
To whom am I beholding for these limbs?
Omitting the sweet benefit of time
And when I am on horseback, I will swear
And here, in sight of heaven, to Rome I swear,
Of your own cause. Is this the witness, friar?
To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
Your servant and your friend;
His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
Captain, I thee beseech to do me favours:
His countenance, like richest alchemy,
Exit BOYET
'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may command
made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in
To your own person: nay, when I have a suit
That this his love was an eternal plant,
Prithee, fair youth,
And when a soldier was the theme, my name
shelter hereabouts: misery acquaints a man with
The table's full.
Marcus, we will.
Flower of warriors,
Yes, sooth; and so do you.
Which you have not redeem'd; indeed, paid down
This night englutted! Who is not Timon's?
Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,
Threatening the welkin with his big-swoln face?
Enter Messenger and TALBOT
I know not.
To keep her still, and men in awe,
No space of earth shall sunder our two hates:
nature the wrongs are thou hast done him, I know
And hurt my brother.
lady a merited benefit; redeem your brother from
In the fair multitude of those her hairs!
Where is Antony?
hip to hip.
sir? You are very well met: God 'ild you for your
Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
Had been incorporate. So we grow together,
Ay me, most wretched,
They converse apart
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
for a search, and away went I for foul clothes. But
Black, fearful, comfortless and horrible.
See, not a man in private conference
Set down, set down your honourable load,
What plagues and what portents! what mutiny!
There is a vent of blood and something blown:
Concolinel.
No, sir, God forbid; but ashamed to kiss.
In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
Here, sirrah Grumio; knock, I say.
I see you what you are, you are too proud;
'Tis his own blame; hath put himself from rest,
Now leaves him.
Enter TRINCULO
The scope of justice; till now myself and such
Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
Between the pale complexion of true love
belly, ashore at Windsor? How shall I be revenged
Form such another? This is the very top,
Good morrow, old Sir Thomas Erpingham:
Lest I, by marking of your rage, forget
An act that very chance doth throw upon him--
Where is he, hear you?
and this man out of prison?
of pebbles, that I was fain to draw mine honour in,
are born great, some achieve greatness, and some
With aptness of the season; make denials
Call me before the exactest auditors
Unless thou let his silver water keep
Enter RICHARD PLANTAGENET
His kingly hands, haling ropes;
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
Peace be amongst them, if they turn to us;
These gloves the count sent me; they are an
Nor do I now make moan to be abridged
The consul Coriolanus.
And every tale condemns me for a villain.
But thieves do lose it: steal no less for this
Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
Upon thy words, that kill mine eye and heart!
In private?
Be strew'd before your feet!
Whose father then, as men report
time enough to go home. What shall I say I have
Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense,
Hath he ask'd for me?
You keep by land
Yes, sir.
His new-come champion, virtuous Joan of Arc,
If now I court not but omit, my fortunes
Villain, I say, knock me at this gate
My heart fly to your service; there resides,
Good signior, take the stranger to my house
Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate:
Unless he do submit himself to Rome.
Fortune, good night: smile once more: turn thy wheel!
And such a piece of service will you do,
true English, I love thee, Kate: by which honour I
Page, which is pretty virginity.
Ah, wretched man! would I had died a maid
Certain ones then.
That same Biron I'll torture ere I go:
Sir, my name is Lucio; well known to the duke.
are scarce cater-cousins--
Things done well,
Assist, good friends.
He might have chid me so; for, in good faith,
Would I could meet him, madam! I should show
To be the princely bride of such a lord;
As who goes farthest.
Which now, two tender playfellows to dust,
Daylight and champaign discovers not more: this is
It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
I evermore did love you, Hermia,
Costly apparel, tents, and canopies,
Is it yourself?
May hold him from the Capitol to-day.
Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here!
O, vassal! miscreant!
Breed, by his sufferance, more of such a kind.
Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will
To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot,
The army of the queen hath got the field:
You do not love Maria; Longaville
It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
For now our observation is perform'd;
What answers Clarence to his sovereign's will?
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and LANCASTER
Peace! count the clock.
Hear me one word;
An hundred marks! By this light, I'll ha' more.
And show what we alone must think, which never
That stay his cure: their malady convinces
I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
There must be needs a like proportion
Re-enter AUTOLYCUS
DON
how oft, that ring was copper!
Women to change their shapes than men their minds.
My lords, you know, as know the mightful gods,
hangman; for I know thou worshippest St. Nicholas
O,
For you, my noble Lord of Lancaster,
Something I can command. As I walk thither,
possible for me to say I loved nothing so well as
Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself?
a prop? Do you know me, father?
Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
A stranger, no offender; and inform him
Enter BERTRAM, the COUNTESS of Rousillon, HELENA, and LAFEU, all in black
And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still
Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
Has the king this?
But constant, he were perfect. That one error
Should have shook lions into civil streets,
I laugh'd him into patience; and next morn,
'Item: She can spin.'
That threw her in the sea. Make a fire within:
Make dust our paper and with rainy eyes
Go to kennel, Pompey; go.
A thousand businesses are brief in hand,
Shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax.
I'll do his country service.
Die neither mother, wife, nor England's queen!
And peg thee in his knotty entrails till
Go find him out,
Thy life's a miracle. Speak yet again.
That Katharina and Petruchio should be married,
'Tis pity of him.
False to my nature? Rather say I play
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
I especially think, under Mars.
for a day of kings' entreaties a mother should not
ANTIPHOLUS
I would I were;
O Douglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus,
Set all upon me, mighty sovereign.
If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,
To solemnize this day the glorious sun
hath the jealous fool to her husband! I suspect
Diffusest honey-drops, refreshing showers,
will deliver his wife into your hand. Follow.
I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong,
Wrecked the same instant of their master's death and
court. You told me you salute not at the court, but
Enter DESDEMONA, EMILIA, and Clown
God's peace! I would not lose so great an honour
The worms were hallow'd that did breed the silk;
Been struck so to the soul that presently
The dismall'st day is this that e'er I saw,
And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
You turn the good we offer into envy.
They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence
Their music frightful as the serpent's hiss,
About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
Adopts thee heir, and his high sceptre yields
Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me.
next month? and are they not some of them set
And hedges his own way. But in this point
roast your goose.
From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
Sit, worthy friends: my lord is often thus,
Who is the second that presents himself?
Thou canst not strike it thus to make it still.
What say these young ones? What say you my niece?
To call me to your senate, I'll deliver
Why, I have eat none yet.
All levied in my name, have in my name
If thou inclinest that way, thou art a coward,
be what they are, there were no fear in marriage;
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
Good mine host o' the Garter, a word with you.
O, treble woe
Brave peers of England, pillars of the state,
Ay, this is he that took King Henry's chair,
Is Beaufort term'd a kite? Where are his talons?
Lo, where he comes!
Only, in lieu thereof, dispatch me hence.
Enter BOYET
Matters of needful value. We shall write to you,
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.
Alas! what poor ability's in me
Your gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
What fates impose, that men must needs abide;
In Richard's time,--what do you call the place?--
Do it, and happy; by my silver bow!
Two hundred ducats.
Or else you get no beef of Grumio.
Note this before my notes;
Why, so: now have I done a good day's work:
For those that were, it is not square to take
grammar school; and whereas, before, our forefathers
Must minister to himself.
He but usurp'd his life.
As thou art match'd withal and grafted to,
appropriation to his own good parts, that he can
That now thou tirest on, how thy memory
March all one way and be no more opposed
They say, our French lack language to deny,
Amen to that, sweet powers!
To hovel thee with swine, and rogues forlorn,
There is more in it. Cousin Ganymede!
But where one villain is, then him abandon.
Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world:
most required and necessary.
me, like a double-meaning prophesier.
tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks his
you call love to be a sect or scion.
Our former scruple in our strong-barr'd gates;
For fear we wake her: softly, gentle Patience.
God will in justice ward you as his soldiers;
Do grow beneath their shoulders. This to hear
on thought,
Fore-thinking this, I have already fit--
and she sent over of the King of England's own
That is new-trimm'd, but benefit no further
Mistress Ford! I have had ford enough; I was thrown
Knocks
SCENE IV. Paris. The KING's palace.
PROLOGUE
That hath authority over him that swears:
Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd:
And of his friends there, it is lots to blanks,
With hey, ho,  and c.
If we choose by the horns, yourself come not near.
Here you shall see a countryman of yours
I will be known your advocate: marry, yet
I come to woo ladies, I fright them. But, in faith,
Greater he shall not be; if he serve God,
That your best friends shall wish I had been further.
Or with the clamorous report of war
Disprove this villain, if thou be'st a man:
When I did name her brothers, then fresh tears
Why, then, your visor should be thatched.
Ay, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in a
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Agamemnon's tent.
Will you not dance? How come you thus estranged?
SCENE I. Salisbury. An open place.
With gold on lasting pillars: In one voyage
Now, ye familiar spirits, that are cull'd
Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
She hath pursued conclusions infinite
I do not well know, my lord. If it shall please
Not yet, my cousin: we would be resolved,
Received and did deliver to our age
I am doubtful that you have been conjunct
The parents live, whose children thou hast butcher'd,
Cut me to pieces, Volsces; men and lads,
And now you should be as your mother was
Farewell, good Master Oliver: not,--
I have forgot the map.
The oil, the balsamum and aqua-vitae.
As thou lovest Silvia, though not for thyself,
Provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide,
So humbly take my leave.
For the inheritance of their loves and safeguard
To-morrow, then, I judge a happy day.
Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts
of her breath.'
Exit
The princes orgulous, their high blood chafed,
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
Would be as heavy to me as odious, but
sulphurous pit,
Truly, lady, no.
yourself? Why, do you not perceive the jest?
Enter, from opposite sides, a Fairy, and PUCK
myself notice of my brother's purpose herein and
for missing your meetings and appointments.
I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then
When was this?
We have stretch'd thus far, let us beseech you
To keep by policy what Henry got?
Whip me, ye devils,
No, Pompey.
Or for love's sake, a word that loves all men,
Alas, the sea hath cast me on the rocks,
Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, and
Thinking his voice an armed Englishman;
And you this glove. When shall I see you?
Tullus Aufidius then had made new head?
He is there: see what humour he is in; and I will
But, bear-like, I must fight the course. What's he
Therein illustrated: the honour of it
Can any of your neighbours tell, Kate? I'll ask
I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck
Giving the crown
Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason
Even all I have; yea, and myself and all,
Have thou the ordering of this present time.
'Gainst whom I am too little to contend,
Besides, this sorrow is an enemy,
delivered him to his liberty or executed him? I
You are still crossing it. Sirs, let't alone:
To God, my king and my succeeding issue,
What man is that?
Pales in the flood with men, with wives and boys,
Come, come, thou boy-queller, show thy face;
I grant it, for thine own, whate'er it be.
rapes and ravishments he parallels Nessus: he
would he were, for I am now so far in offence with
How!
Exit LUCIUS
Victorious Titus, rue the tears I shed,
Why, this is your own folly. Did not I tell you how
Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
hunt this weather? They have scared away two of my
Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me:
The Jove of power make me most weak, most weak,
Make soft thy trenchant sword; for those milk-paps,
What if this mixture do not work at all?
As you respect the common good, the state
And farewell goes out sighing. O, let not
gain by you.
He is at Milford-Haven: read, and tell me
Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
blunt as, God help, I would desire they were; but,
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
like the witch of Brentford.
Our baleful news, and at each word's deliverance
Exit, to the cave
He gave to Alexander; to Ptolemy he assign'd
power that we have no power to do; for if he show us
For riches strew'd herself even in the streets;
course for England: of them I have much to tell
Heaven would that she these gifts should have,
But what care I for words? yet words do well
On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
It is the prince of palfreys; his neigh is like the
But say, again; how many saw the child?
Exit Hostess
I have no gift at all in shrewishness;
me: but I requited him for his lie; and, I
marriage binds and blood breaks: a poor virgin,
[To BONA]  And, gracious madam, in our king's behalf,
Thou hast done well, fine Ariel!
No, truly; it is more than manners will:
To whisper. At the which let no man wonder.
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
Please you repeat their names, I'll show my mind
O Clifford, boisterous Clifford! thou hast slain
Might be the be-all and the end-all here,
Know, good mother,
Look you, the worm is not to be trusted but in the
mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I would do
As 'twere triumphing at mine enemies,
And there I see such black and grained spots
And come with naked swords.
And who durst mine when Warwick bent his brow?
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
And I must to Lorenzo and the rest:
Infortunate in nothing but in thee:
Of my endurance, thou art a man, and I
Those articles, my lord, are in the king's hand:
[Within]  The Lord protect him! so we answer him:
Takes off my manhood: I have belied a lady,
I protest I love the duke as I love myself.
Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.
Like a tench! by the mass, there is ne'er a king
Then never trust me, if I be afeard.
You would all this time have proved there is no
And these he masters now: now he weighs time
which time of the contract and limit of the
Thetis, being proud, swallow'd some part o' the earth:
Gone already!
I know him not.
Your exposition misinterpreting,
Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo:
In every place, save here in Italy.
Find liable to our crown and dignity,
sorrow that e'er I heard virgin exclaim in: which I
wit and it will out at the casement; shut that and
Ay.
Now, good Metellus, go along by him:
I know not what may fall; I like it not.
To keep her chamber.
Thy lying tongue both numbers, I would say
Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss;
And most forsworn, to keep what thou dost swear.
rest; for there is nothing in the between but
That lie too heavy on the commonwealth,
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs,
pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a
Enter the Ghosts of RIVERS, GRAY, and VAUGHAN
And we'll pray for you.
The narrow-prying father, Minola,
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
l'envoy, no l'envoy; no salve, sir, but a plantain!
Ah, Exeter!
Our sorrow with our comfort.
To-morrow night, when Phoebe doth behold
Know, I pray you,--
'Tis well, Lavinia, that thou hast no hands;
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
Ecstasy!
the prince thou art a tall fellow of thy hands and
description the matter to you, if you be capacity of it.
Can a woman rail thus?
As or by oath remove or counsel shake
That art thyself a man?
All praises, which are paid as debts,
But only slaughter'd by the ireful arm
If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no title,
What can from Italy annoy us; but
As never did the clergy at one time
No, by my honour, madam, by my soul,
And patient fools,
Nay, master, said not I as much when I saw the
For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
Strangers in court do take her for the queen:
Here's he that would take from you all your power.
If those that care to keep your royal person
Why, then, thou know'st what colour jet is of?
Re-enter ARIEL, with the Master and Boatswain amazedly following
'Do't: the letter
'Tis she is sub-contracted to this lord,
My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will.
With wholesome syrups, drugs and holy prayers,
more comfortable sort: if my son were my husband, I
When shrill-tongued Fulvia scolds. The messengers!
The king is mad: how stiff is my vile sense,
Upon a valiant race thy harsh
surprise him; such I will have, whom I am sure he
This is the flower that smiles on every one,
O, Charles the Dauphin is a proper man;
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
Allegiance in them; their curses now
I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.
found my daughter?
A modern ecstasy; the dead man's knell
Ha! I like not that.
Cannot but yield you forth to public thanks,
Hired to it by your brother.
It should be thus with him: he must die tomorrow.
My nephew's trespass may be well forgot;
There stay until the twelve celestial signs
What harm a wind too great at sea might do.
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence attended; the two Frenchmen, with a troop of soldiers.
Exit
Your grace's pardon, and I hope I had it.
Do you hear, forester?
With very easy arguments of love,
Here was 'I thank you for your voices: thank you:
Francis!
For Antony,
Away, away, to meet the queen's great power!
My lord would speak; my duty hushes me.
No, madam.
write and read.
Mistake no more: I am not Licio,
Be thy mouth or black or white,
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
That! what?
Base Trojan, thou shalt die.
The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sided
I was the other day talking on the sea-bank with
Not fearing death, nor shrinking for distress,
Under your testy humour? By the gods
Or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully.
And I will sign it.
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Writes
A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
liveth, is to be no counterfeit, but the true and
He's but a mad lord, and nought but humour sways him.
Drops earliest to the ground; and so let me
well. There was more foolery yet, if I could
Some bring the murder'd body, some the murderers:
Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man,
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave
Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember
A joyless, dismal, black, and sorrowful issue:
It is well done, and fitting for a princess
Than pity to our prayers. Down: an end;
My good master,
You lords and heads o' the state, perfidiously
The king shall do it: must he be deposed?
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack,
Marry, God forbid! the boy was the very staff of my
And hold your hands in benediction o'er me:
is dat knave Rugby?
She wish'd she had not heard it, yet she wish'd
Sir John! art thou there, my deer? my male deer?
If brothers.
him: it must be a personating of himself; a satire
Unto the frowning judge? or who pronounced
for in converting Jews to Christians, you raise the
In whom the tide rested, were suppress'd.
This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name,
Poins!
To see the life as lively mock'd as ever
Music
A mistress's command. Wear this; spare speech;
Qu'ai-j'oublie! dere is some simples in my closet,
O my dear Cassio! my sweet Cassio! O Cassio,
That this our court, infected with their manners,
And practising upon his peace and quiet
Strength match'd with strength, and power confronted power:
And yet I bear a burthen like an ass,
prove you a fool.
And entertain'd me with mine own device;
Master young man, you, I pray you, which is the way
Thou shalt ere long be free.
Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit
What time I threw the people's suffrages
Nay, certainly, there is no truth in him.
And yielding to him humours well his frenzy.
And what wit could wit have to excuse that?
Enter HOLOFERNES, for Judas; and MOTH, for Hercules
Idly supposed the founder of this law;
ACT II
I am sorry you must hear: upon mine honour,
is Dromio.
one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we
I say, but mark his gesture. Marry, patience;
Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
Corrupt, corrupt, and tainted in desire!
and moves with its own organs: it lives by that
An earthly paragon! Behold divineness
and here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my
Of bold-faced victory. Then leaden age,
The extreme parts of time extremely forms
Be comforted, good madam: the great rage,
That commonly rebels. 'Tis a good hand,
you out of reprieve and pardon.
Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer
To Dover.
I am the governor of this place you lie before.
For happy wedlock hours.
He, being in the vaward, placed behind
I must obey.
A prophet to the fall of all our foes!
Not to be other than one thing, not moving
Guienne, Champagne, Rheims, Orleans,
I'll know your business, Harry, that I will.
Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies,
In poor beseeming; 'twas a fitment for
The proudest of them shall well hear of it.
The uncertain glory of an April day,
Exit
The noblest ta'en.
Come, go along, and see the truth hereof;
filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the
News, friends; our wars are done, the Turks
Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'
duck, thou art made like a goose.
Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister
I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
mind. Give her no token but stones; for she's as
With that which melteth fools; I mean, sweet words,
As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote
boys behind 'em, loose shot, delivered such a shower
And hang a calf's-skin on his recreant limbs.
not who knew it
As frozen water to a starved snake.
Gentle my lord, turn back.
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
'Hath sent to me, wishing me to permit
Now, as thou lovest me, let me see his letter.
The leaf to read them. Let us toward the king.
I did suppose it should be on constraint:
To choose for wealth and not for perfect love.
Good Aaron, wilt thou help to chop it off?
If it be banish'd from the frosty head,
No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
And did he send you both these letters at an instant?
That he shuts up himself, imagine me,
dregs of the storm be past.
Did nothing.
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
I am glad to see your honour in good health.
This is not strange, Ulysses.
he see me, you shall see him nod at me.
Your statue spouting blood in many pipes,
Thy brother by decree is banished:
Thy heart to find it. Is she with Posthumus?
The end of this day's business ere it come!
What shall I do? I'll creep up into the chimney.
When I am in my coach, which stays for us
Be pitiful to my condemned sons,
Right,
Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice
'Tis he that sent us hither now to slaughter thee.
Expects my coming, there to see me shipp'd.
To see me thus transformed to a boy.
With gentle conference, soft and affable.
I love thee infinitely. But hark you, Kate;
Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?
They sit conferring by the parlor fire.
The one the other poison'd for my sake,
hast me, if thou hast me, at the worst; and thou
Peace!
For I shall never speak to thee again.
By our best eyes cannot be censured:
O brave Oliver,
and is hanged betimes in the morning, may sleep the
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Take thou the fee, and tell him what I say;
To learn of me, who stand i' the gaps to teach you,
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
To desperate ventures and assured destruction.
O, if the streets were paved with thine eyes,
And put us to our answer.
Retorts to chiding fortune.
I am gone, sir,
DON
Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,
Thus with my hat, and sigh and say 'amen,'
But by bad courses may be understood
without these follies, that these follies are within
But I will gloze with him.--Young prince of Tyre,
'Ninus' tomb,' man: why, you must not speak that
With secrets.
But what's the matter, Clarence?  may I know?
her brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.
Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the
stuck in ears: you might have pinched a placket, it
Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
'Wonder of nature,'--
What is her burying grave that is her womb,
The good is oft interred with their bones;
Unto an enemy's triumph.
bridge as you shall see in a summer's day. But it
She should not visit you.
For I intend to have it ere long.
For love of you, not hate unto my friend,
To stop affliction, let him take his haste,
Exeunt all but BENEDICK and BEATRICE
Behoves it us to labour for the realm.
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
'Tis very true: thou didst it excellent.
Enter a Servant
My practises ride easy! I see the business.
And nature must obey necessity;
Exeunt
And bay'd about with many enemies;
quart pot to drink in; and now the word 'sallet'
Salute thee for her king: till then, fair boy,
Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case to
The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds;
Canst not read?
Nor scrape trencher, nor wash dish
My absolute power and place here in Vienna,
You have mistook, my lady,
And to the manner born, it is a custom
That rounds the mortal temples of a king
himself. Certainly the Jew is the very devil
Filling the air with swords advanced and darts,
And why not death rather than living torment?
I would not be a young count in your way,
SCENE III. A wood.
And, being troubled with a raging tooth,
Where is the king?
If this man come to good.
Yes, forsooth: I wish you joy o' the worm.
SCENE IV. The field of battle.
That every day with parle encounter me,
pray you, sir, of what disposition was the duke?
Something too liberal. Pray thee, take pain
he had the honour to be the officer at a place there
the Welsh priest and Caius the French doctor.
Even in the matter of mine innocence;
Let me read them.
Clean over-blown, themselves, the conquerors.
ANTIPHOLUS
Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it,
up thus meanly
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
Even for this charge.
Gently entwist; the female ivy so
Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
And not o' the court of Britain.
An empty casket, where the jewel of life
heed of Troilus, I can tell them that too.
Follow'd the old man forth: he is return'd.
Now, my lord constable!
Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash
The general cause? or is it a fee-grief
As confident as is the falcon's flight
Of this most wise rebellion, thou go'st foremost:
Resolved. resolved.
It were an honest action to say
Put on a most importunate aspect,
Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
It is not worth leave-taking.
One of their kind, that relish all as sharply,
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the king,
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
Burn the great sphere thou movest in!
Flew on him, and amongst them fell'd him dead;
It kept where I kept, I so dearly loved it;
And with her golden hand hath pluck'd on France
Most monstrous! oh!
To weep with them that weep doth ease some deal;
the guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my
You scurvy lord!
though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
And, in our maiden council, rated them
Do give a life: no shepherdess, but Flora
What never-dying honour hath he got
To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
At heaviest answer.
Noble Timon,
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
Well, then, I am the shooter.
late is to be up late.
after do our work.
Stand in his face to contradict his claim.
That stout Pendragon in his litter sick
The source of all erection. There's more gold:
neither choose whom I would nor refuse whom I
serve the world for no honest use; therefore you
That Phaethon should cheque thy fiery steeds,
Success to the Roman host.
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
I'll have an Iris that shall find thee out.
He hath some message to deliver us.
Your grace may enter now.
What think you of this page, my lord?
O this woodcock, what an ass it is!
Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
him.
Would he had been one of my rank!
And his opinion: now I change my mind,
What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell!
Raised only, that the weaker sort may wish
amazed, he will every way be mocked.
Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
Tennis-balls, my liege.
enrich the hand
For beauty, wit,
Obedience, which you owe your father. For
Of York, is it not?
For your own quiet, as to rectify
Tut! our horses they shall not see: I'll tie them
the owner.
of mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him
Nurse! What should she do here?
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
Music. Tables set out: Servants attending.  Enter divers Lords, Senators and others, at several doors
To break it with a fearful dream of him
That you insult, exult, and all at once,
Not minding whether I dislike or no!
Will't not be?
Exeunt. Flourish
Now do your duty throughly, I advise you:
And what hear there for welcome but my groans?
Is man no more than this? Consider him well. Thou
Let it command a mirror hither straight,
The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?
For there will be a world of water shed
I could not stir him:
Even in the chair of state: belike he means,
That the Pannonians and Dalmatians for
What mean you, madam? by my life, my troth,
I have't. It is engender'd. Hell and night
Lords, let him go. Please it your majesty,
In a rich chair of state, opposing freely
With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den,
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
In this so sudden business.
Yield not thy neck
Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
comes this night to Messina.
notwithstanding, Master Fenton, I'll be sworn on a
And, princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.
I am weary; yea, my memory is tired.
constable?
apes into hell.
Such different issues. You spoke not with her since?
And all is semblative a woman's part.
Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the porter.
And soothe the devil that I warn thee from?
But yet I have no desire to it.
And think no more of this night's accidents
If thou be he, then art thou prisoner.
No, my lord, I'll fight.
My love is thine to teach: teach it but how,
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
Thus stands the case: you know our king, my brother,
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouthed and calumnious knave?
Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end,--
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
That's to 't indeed, sir: marry, sir, at the request
Come, come.
Directly unto this question that I ask:
What say ye, countrymen? will ye relent,
Here come those I have done good to against my will,
As much for my poor brother as myself:
'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds,
But was a petty servant to the state,
Be free, and fare thou well! Please you, draw near.
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
And the late marriage made of none effect
Be assured, madam,
Take thy face hence.
Ay, boy, ready.
A sister driven into desperate terms,
for worms. But I'll go search the market.
A journey to my loving Proteus.
by which means I saw whose purse was best in
A losing suit against him. Are you answer'd?
Was the first motive that I woo'd thee, Anne:
Weeps when she sees me work, and says, such baseness
Sir, I bade them take away you.
Enter a Servant
Yea, and much better blood than his or thine.
From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty:
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
We shall be late else; which I would not be,
Bid him demand what pledge will please him best.
A' bears the third part of the world, man; see'st
May rather pluck on laughter than revenge;
I cannot tell; I make it breed as fast:
This royal infant--heaven still move about her!--
Pinch him for his villany;
Christian burial.
With our pure honours, nor attend the foot
Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch
To ORLANDO
For villany is not without such rheum;
But, as I think, it was by the cardinal;
Upbraided me about the rose I wear;
ANTIPHOLUS
Thou hast as chiding a nativity
Who after me hath many a weary step
not by favour. Our king, being ready to leap out of
gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman, before
The gods be good unto us!
Thou unadvised scold, I can produce
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
To Calchas' house, and there to render him,
And I embrace this fortune patiently,
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
And creep into it far before thy time?
Re-enter DESDEMONA, attended
Or Edward's soft and pitiful, like mine
That I may venture to depart alone.
My lord protector, 'tis his highness' pleasure
I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er,
I myself have all the other,
How shall we do for money for these wars?
This discord's ground, the music would not please.
I have so: what of him?
He knows that you embrace not Antony
Come, son, away; we may not linger thus.
O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand?
Nay, then she must needs come.
To have his princely paws pared all away:
I having ta'en the forfeit. Whereupon--
Show scarce so gross as beetles: half way down
Exit
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
She is my essence, and I leave to be,
life, long, and ever happy, to the high and mighty
But then Aufidius was with in my view,
Or, if you borrow one another's love for the
The gods look down, and this unnatural scene
And after fight with them?
Now to the Goths, as swift as swallow flies;
That I neither feel how she should be loved nor
In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed,
I do perceive here a divided duty:
Slave, I have set my life upon a cast,
will blow it to pieces, they are so pitifully sodden.
Get you to bed on the instant; I will be returned
Enter LAUNCELOT
Ah, women, women! come; we have no friend
Come to the matter.
Bear with me; I am hungry for revenge,
our unlawful intents? We shall not then have his
She is something before her time deliver'd.
Why, I can teach you, cousin, to command
As he will lose his head ere give consent
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
This civil war of wits were much better used
Short tale to make, we at Saint Alban's met
If I revolt, off goes young George's head;
Such duty as the subject owes the prince
I'll make one in a dance, or so; or I will play
Art thou not second woman in the realm,
Holds honour far more precious-dear than life.
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong,
What are they that do play it?
Are you contented to resign the crown?
SCENE IX. Another part of the plains.
without, I know he will choose it. I will do any
What hour is it?
From the noise of our own drums.'
The honour that he loses: more I'll entreat you
That thou couldst say 'This hand is Grecian all,
My land amounts not to so much in all:
Went through the army, cheering up the soldiers.
That grudge one thought against your majesty!
One all of luxury, an ass, a madman;
You are much more attask'd for want of wisdom
the streets; for, for the watch to babble and to
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
Why, so I can, sir, but I will not now.
Enter two Senators with VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  VALERIA,  and c. passing over the stage, followed by Patricians and others
They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke,
Fie!
[Reads]  'Dian, the count's a fool, and full of gold,'--
When my good stars, that were my former guides,
violence of action hath made you reek as a
That were we talking of, and of his anger.
Being our kinsman, if we revel much:
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
A man, if I live; and this, by, in, and without, upon
But new struck nine.
The senate hath stirr'd up the confiners
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
That calumny doth use--O, I am out--
Which if they have as I will leave 'em them,
I need not tell him that; he knows you are too diligent.
This is her honour!
For certain sums of gold, which you denied me:
Witness my tears, I cannot stay to speak.
And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave.
How now, Sir William! whither were you sent?
Enter a Serving-man
How now, fair lords! What fare? what news abroad?
Shall, with my cousin, your right-noble son,
Is't not enough to break into my garden,
What's dumb in show I'll plain with speech.
All things that we ordained festival,
Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
Teach her the way.
It grieves many:
mistress and be happy rivals in Bianco's love, to
And thou art flying to a fresher clime:
That is he: I'll tell you there is good men porn at Monmouth.
extremities he endured; and in the reproof of this
A life's but a span;
this! Why, my lord of York commends the plot and the
SCENE II. A public road near Coventry.
My vows are equal partners with thy vows.
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
Hath with his forged letters,--damn'd Pisanio--
Lay
I do beseech you,
But when extremities speak. I have heard you say,
And that which looks like pride is courtesy.
And you, forsooth, had the good duke to keep:
use fifty talents, hath sent to your lordship to
To gratify his noble service that
In hand and hope of action: but we do learn
If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none
Embrace each other's love in banishment;
To chide my fortune, and torment myself?
That shall salute our rightful sovereign
replication should be made by the son of a king?
When, I beseech you? that in his reprieve,
are: but precise villains they are, that I am sure
March afar off, and shot within
Neither the king, nor he that loves him best,
Thy words move rage and not remorse in me:
To the end of generation!
Though chance of war hath wrought this change of cheer,
And lady-smocks all silver-white
You are my father too, and did relieve me,
How many then should cover that stand bare!
No.
Now to 'scape the serpent's tongue,
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
Is he so much? Do you not think he thinks himself a
Art thou not weary, John? how dost thou fare?
Torment myself to catch the English crown:
Sound, music! Come, my queen, take hands with me,
Shall be struck off.' Hector, what say you to't?
And God befriend us, as our cause is just!
horse, and he frets like a gummed velvet.
To find out practises of cunning hell,
Join'd with an enemy proclaim'd and from his coffers
Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship.
If thou remember'st aught ere thou camest here,
And now both rivals, to mock Helena:
And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine.
O, torture me no more! I will confess.
And then I will proclaim young Henry king.
It were no match, your nail against his horn.
Or else my sword with an unbatter'd edge
Thy Edward he is dead, that stabb'd my Edward:
Call'd you, my lord?
My salad days,
Good madam!
Thy voice is thunder, but thy looks are humble.
I dare not say he lies any where.
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son,
My soul would sue as advocate for thee.
Her mother liveth yet, can testify
My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.
There's something more would out of thee; what say'st?
Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
See justice done on Aaron, that damn'd Moor,
will come a time. I never knew a woman so dote upon
mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand comes
Be patient, for you shall remain with us.
Of ever angry bears: it was a torment
I know thou dost.
Mum.
It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the
And buz these conjurations in her brain.
mistress fallen out.
I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest,
Enter CATESBY
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
He well may be a stranger, for he comes
Come, my lord.
By water shall he die, and take his end.
Exeunt all but WARWICK
thou say, thou serge, nay, thou buckram lord! now
I'll believe him as an enemy, and give over my trade.
with obscured lights; which, at the very instant of
Say, the brave Antony.
Of this proud king, who studies day and night
Here in the tent.
Come, you and I must walk a turn together;
What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
Like a bold flood o'er-bear. O, come, go in,
We being strangers here, how darest thou trust
And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st
This royal hand and mine are newly knit,
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
Lending me this acquaintance. I pray you, go
Wherefore, sweet-heart? what's your metaphor?
Wasted our country, slain our citizens
Enter JULlA and LUCETTA
To the shining synod of the rest
Six years we banish him, and he shall go.
Like to his father's greatness: his approach,
That through our intercession this revokement
What, drunk with choler? stay and pause awhile:
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Heart's discontent and sour affliction
The satisfaction of her knowledge only
For else his project dies--to keep them living.
Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a-year!
That rids our dogs of languish?
No worse a husband than the best of men;
And thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
To give it due content.
You're an odd man; give even or give none.
How bloodily the sun begins to peer
You're welcome, gentlemen.
Courageously and with a free desire
birth and virtue gives you heraldry. You are not
When noble Pericles shall demand his child?
What duty they do owe their lords and husbands.
By darkening my clear sun. My lord, farewell.
Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
inward between us, let it pass. I do beseech thee,
the ear of caelo, the sky, the welkin, the heaven;
Thou mayst cut a morsel off the spit.
Weigh you the worth and honour of a king
I' faith, his hair is of a good colour.
And all wide-stretched honours that pertain
Pisanio, thou that stand'st so for Posthumus!
That common chances common men could bear;
Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could see
To EDGAR
Both to defend my loyalty and truth
of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.
Small time, but in that small most greatly lived
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Both to defend himself and to approve
Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's hearse,
Who is conductor of his people?
ACT I
Do their best office, if they can but stay you
And, vanquish'd as I am, I yield to thee,
and a man that I love and honour with my soul, and my
By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face:
Dieu de batailles! where have they this mettle?
Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm,
And yet, between my soul's desire and me--
I cannot speak him home: he stopp'd the fliers;
It shall be his. You shall close prisoner rest,
Tell me, can you deliver an oration to the emperor
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
In debating which was best, we shall part with neither.
Or rather, call my thought a certain knowledge--
Nay, I have verses too, I thank Biron:
but in honest, civil, godly company, for this trick:
That is the true beginning of our end.
Give it the captain.
Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
with him; hurt him in eleven places: my niece shall
These differences shall all rest under gage
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
Hath made thee handless in thy father's sight?
He fell upon me ere admitted: then
therefore fire: do thy duty, and have thy duty; for
Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart:
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
Measured to look upon you; whom he loves--
Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself,
That I might love thee something.
Albeit I make a hazard of my head.
down the door? How now! what's the matter?
That would depopulate the city and
What trumpet is that same?
Thou teachest me. Minion, your dear lies dead,
Give signs, sweet girl, for here are none
And comforts to your cause.
By crying comfort from a hollow breast,
True, Clifford; and that's Richard Duke of York.
That Cranmer is return'd with welcome,
Rouse him and give him note of our approach.
Lay not your blame on me: If you have lost him,
Of their friends' gift?
More evident than this; for this was stolen.
Which you did shoot the first, I do not doubt,
What, am I poor of late?
Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is lost.
That I can find should merit any hate.
an thou wilt not, why, then, be enemies with me too.
Bid me farewell.
Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring.
bawdy-house; they pick pockets.
Was my father a traitor, mother?
And every one doth call me by my name.
And when thou fail'st--as God forbid the hour!--
And I to live and die her slave.
and 'no' to every thing that I said!--'Ay' and 'no'
To see another thus. I know not what to say.
Now humble as the ripest mulberry
But at fourscore it is too late a week:
salvation, body and soul.
Proceed:
[Reads]  'I will waylay thee going home; where if it
He is a Roman; no more kin to me
For, now they are oppress'd with travel, they
I will not hence, till, with my talk and tears,
one, sir, in this interlude; one Sir Topas, sir; but
Of this was Tamora delivered;
Only the adulterous Antony, most large
For God's sake let him have 'em; to keep them here,
Drink thou; increase the reels.
I  would 'twere bed-time, Hal, and all well.
Unto the crown of France. That you may know
Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
On serious business, craving quick dispatch,
Master, there is a bark of Epidamnum
Which now we hold at much uncertainty.
To Henry Bolingbroke.
See here these movers that do prize their hours
Where meeting with an old religious man,
Grace to boot!
As sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle,--
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
She's impudent, my lord,
Alas, poor lady, desolate and left!
a merry knight. Will you go, An-heires?
I pray you, have your remembrance, child,
Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts
Because it is an enemy to thee;
True; and a goose for his discretion.
A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king;
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
Hence will I drag thee headlong by the heels
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
Therefore the earth, fearing to be o'erflow'd,
Within rich Pisa walls, as any one
Whether thou best he or no,
with my excrement, with my mustachio; but, sweet
Quite from his nature: he cannot flatter, he,
Why, sir, her name's a word; and to dally with that
they not malefactors?
Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd,
I am not a-hungry, I thank you, forsooth. Go,
I have one heart, one bosom and one truth,
am dejected; I am not able to answer the Welsh
be cheater to them both, and they shall be
And rack thee in their fancies.
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
In single combat thou shalt buckle with me,
Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth,
O thou goddess,
Most certain of one mother, mighty king;
Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.
No cock of mine; you crow too like a craven.
vill kill de Jack priest; and I have appointed mine
To the shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bow'd,
Not one, my lord.
Had slipp'd our claim until another age.
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
which with,--O, with--but with this I passion to say
But sorrow flouted at is double death.
Believe not thy disdain, but presently
Therein our letters do not well agree;
quick by him and hanged for Pompey that is dead by
How does your patient, doctor?
Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off
I am amazed, methinks, and lose my way
thou keep!
To look upon the holy sun, to have
What, shall we forth?
husband is seldom from home; but she hopes there
Who, as I hear, mean to solicit him
Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
And in conclusion wins the king from her,
Safely, I think: 'twas a contention in public,
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic;
Dost think I am so muddy, so unsettled,
Open your gates. Come, uncle Exeter,
My lord archbishop;
God-den to your worship, good Captain James.
What, hast thou been long blind and now restored?
And I must pause till it come back to me.
That dotes on Cassio; as 'tis the strumpet's plague
But had his titles by Tenantius whom
Her pretty action did outsell her gift,
Wilt thou go?
Do me some service, ere I come to thee.
A noise again, 'Stones! stones!' Enter Mayor
And therefore lost that title of respect
Or keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools.
Or the light loss of England for a friend:
Even in your hearts, there will he rake for it:
And we shall have more wars before 't be long.
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
Than this; that nothing do I see in you,
You would quickly learn to know him by his voice.
Enter CLEOPATRA
From Troy and Troilus.
O lady, weep no more, lest I give cause
No, by no means.
Dear Princess, were not his requests so far
More fierce and more inexorable far
Of you that yet are well.
and let the world slip: we shall ne'er be younger.
Contract us 'fore these witnesses.
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
By taking nor by giving of excess,
You to a love that your true faith doth merit:
Who brought it?
again for all the coin in thy father's exchequer.
Good your highness, patience.
I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep;
The Douglas and the Hotspur both together
on him, I charge you, in the duke's name. O, my
I for an Edward weep, so do not they:
Who would believe me? O perilous mouths,
Mark him and write his speeches in their books,
Yes, every man of them, and no man here
Nothing of me, has a'?
If then thy spirit look upon us now,
With her whom here I cannot hold on shore;
Enter HORATIO
Where man doth not inhabit; you 'mongst men
often burst and now repaired with knots; one girth
A thousand of his people butchered;
the world, and to live in a nook merely monastic.
not alone the imperfections of long-engraffed
never fell upon our nation till now; I never felt it
And since you know you cannot see yourself
Nay, I was rhyming: 'tis you that have the reason.
I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,
So will the queen, that living held him dear.
Therefore Achilles: but, whate'er, know this:
These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent,
A shout within
He is a privileged man. Proceed, Thersites.
Without a sudden calm, will overset
Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor!
Exeunt all but APEMANTUS and TIMON
Knocking within. Enter a Porter
Will you go see the order of the course?
to three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all:
My father came untimely to his death?
Great Caesar,--
none. I shall be with her, I may tell you, by her
young Master Launcelot.
To wage an instant trial with the king.
Exeunt PRINCESS, ROSALINE, KATHARINE, and MARIA
Did scare away, or rather did affright;
Either send the chain or send me by some token.
Drinks
devoured many a gentleman of your house: I promise
I have done. Come, you promised me a tawdry-lace
What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,
I'll swear for 'em.
When shall we come to the top of that same hill?
As if my brother lived: I partly think
The elected deer before thee?
estimation; for I never knew so young a body with so
Do not torment me: Oh!
gross as a mountain, open, palpable. Why, thou
Well, let it strike.
To many lords and ladies; there will be
Do so. Farewell, both.
The snake lies rolled in the cheerful sun,
of men's bodies? Well, a horn for my money, when
This is not Brutus, friend; but, I assure you,
Till then, enough. Come, friends.
Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, GLOUCESTER, CARDINAL, and SUFFOLK, with Falconers halloing
And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Exit
One of them is well known, my gracious lord,
Thou art a cobbler, art thou?
Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
ANTIPHOLUS
These news, my lord, may cheer our drooping spirits:
Your highness came to England, so will I
Kate, my wooing is fit for thy understanding: I am
As they are going out, enter EDGAR disguised
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
I would you knew:
No doubt he will requite it. This is noted,
Doth make the fault the worse by the excuse,
have lost, the disgrace we have digested; which in
Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--
ye're so slight. He that hath a will to die by
Myself by with a needle, that I might prick
Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds:
Whence are you, sir? Has the porter his eyes in his
Now, daughter Silvia, you are hard beset.
Thy sister's sister.
Make haste: who has the note of them?
FLAMINIUS waiting. Enter a Servant to him
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
thousand salads ere we light on such another herb.
Such gain the cap of him that makes 'em fine,
Appear'd to me last night, for ne'er was dream
Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly,
'Tis very true: O wise and upright judge!
ANTIPHOLUS
And drive away the vulgar from the streets:
Men into such strange mysteries?
As low as to the fiends!'
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
For nothing had begot my something grief;
I call thee not.
Who is thy lord?
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
How long is't since she went to Milford-Haven?
Ten leagues beyond man's life; she that from Naples
Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct
seas, live in fire, eat rocks, tame tigers; thinking
And for me,
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, and the BISHOP of ELY
As you malign our senators for that
I would have had thee there, and here again,
In like conditions as our argument,
Is as a fiend confined to tyrannize
SCENE VII. The orchard in Swinstead Abbey.
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
out, when Lady the brach may stand by the fire and stink.
one she loves.
DON
Anon I'll give thee more instructions.
That she repeals him for her body's lust;
Wherefore did you so?
Encompass'd with thy lustful paramours!
At large discourse, while here they do remain.
friendship
Music, awake her; strike!
Ne'er issued from his blood. Take my defiance!
If by the way they be not fought withal.
None rare, my lord.
To-morrow, then, we will attend your grace:
Once more, what news?
Health and all happiness to my lord the king!
Ay, if a' have no man's blood in's belly than will
Banish your dotage; banish usury,
The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for
Come hither to me, Master Elbow; come hither, Master
O, in the battle think on Buckingham,
He that ears my land spares my team and gives me
Me seemeth then it is no policy,
To this extremity. Thy husband knew it all.
Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
How shall we, then, behold their natural tears?
Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
I'll wear a boot, to make it somewhat rounder.
Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee:
Like a base pander, hold the chamber-door
One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more
More than in words?
How well this yielding rescues thee from shame!
That nightly lie in those unproper beds
Whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferr'd
I say, this Ajax--
I saw their weapons drawn: there was a noise,
By any token of presumptuous suit;
Now I see
Now, by heaven,
I mean, in bearing weight of government,
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
present the princess, sweet chuck, with some
So far as thou wilt speak it.
Came crying 'mongst his foes,
Two lovely berries moulded on one stem;
Or had he 'scaped, methinks we should have heard
not but to do myself much right, or you much shame.
There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
thunderbolt.
Why, fare thee well:
As I intend to prosper and repent,
trick. If you will hang me for it, you may; but I
Unto the climate that they point upon.
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
You are as fond of grief as of your child.
Enter Pyramus
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
That thought abuses you.
What private griefs they have, alas, I know not,
O, ho! do you come near me now? no worse man than
But that our soft conditions and our hearts
The one half of my commission; and set down--
No, my lord.
discretion you ought to use me, look you: being as
Proceed, Moon.
The king and his companions: warily
Exeunt
argument? Now, if these men do not die well, it
Had been the very sum of my confession:
Some dungeon.
it. Nay, friar, I am a kind of burr; I shall stick.
The trees, though summer, yet forlorn and lean,
Hath my poor boy done aught but well,
E'en that you have there.
This shall not be revoked.
I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
One.
Be all my sins remember'd.
Good husband, let us every one go home,
And thou the velvet: thou art good velvet; thou'rt
While we return these dukes what we decree.
The sun with one eye vieweth all the world.
You have it full, Benedick: we may guess by this
And, sith there's no justice in earth nor hell,
Dauphin, command the citizens make bonfires
Take you some company, and away to horse:
Fare you well, my dove!
Pluck down benches.
I do refuse you for my judge; and here,
Exeunt
Well then I know thee: what shall I know of thee?
The history of all her secret thoughts:
Extended Asia from Euphrates;
'When from my finger you can get this ring
As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
You're a dog.
And here the smug and silver Trent shall run
Have thy desire.
I have not from your eyes that gentleness
You are a fool; go to.
Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder;
The star is fall'n.
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
Why should excuse be born or e'er begot?
SCENE III. Brutus's tent.
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
countermands
O,--As true as truest horse, that yet would
An't please your grace, the two great cardinals
Or a harlot, for her weeping;
Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, and scorn me?
Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound:
And give sweet passage to my sinful soul!
Again: if any Syracusian born
With wit enough for thee.
Here a' comes, methinks, and the queen with him.
countenance. Farewell: you shall find me in Eastcheap.
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
O noble fellow!
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
Straight, how 'tis like to go.
With the same 'havior that your passion bears
But this is something odd.
They make in Italy; the borders maritime
But hear you.
That shall fly with them: for many a thousand widows
He vented them; most narrow measure lent me:
That thou mayst shake the superflux to them,
They are in readiness.
Unmasking
strong, or so.
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
I cry thee mercy:
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
Upon what ground is his distemperature?
the bricks are alive at this day to testify it;
my means. The jewels you have had from me to
Why, no, I say, distrustful recreants!
Dare rack his own: his subject am I not,
What is't for?
four legs; for it hath been said, As proper a man as
Fie, sirrah! a bawd, a wicked bawd!
should have play for lack of work. Would, for the
Orsino's mistress and his fancy's queen.
Edmund is dead, my lord.
To welcome him! much more, and much more cause,
If that our noble father be alive?
Humphrey of Buckingham, I accept thy greeting.
pancakes were naught and the mustard was good, and
None but friends: say boldly.
If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit,
difference of all complexions. What! do you stop your ears?
But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
Your well defended honour, you must pardon
Eastcheap. The Boar's-Head Tavern.
you have sworn to me. What, are you gone again?
Anne the jest, how my father stole two geese out of
Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
All hail, sweet madam, and fair time of day!
More rich for what they yielded.
Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis,
Shouts within
His eldest sister, Anne,
But, for his purpose in the coronation.
The untented woundings of a father's curse
With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster;
exceptions to your ill hours.
I reck not though I end my life to-day.
At the lower end of the hall, hurl'd up their caps,
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
This ravenous tiger, this accursed devil;
A plague upon you all! His royal person,--
As I can bid thee speak.
What, ho! chamberlain!
If we offend, it is with our good will.
made me businesses which none without thee can
It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from
Good even, Casca: brought you Caesar home?
I am about it; but indeed my invention
have greater reason to believe now than ever, I mean
I warrant thee.
that pass: for I must tell thee, it will please his
father had never a house but the cage.
swain, that base minnow of thy mirth,'--
As thou and I; who, as thou know'st, are dear
To muddy death.
am the besom that must sweep the court clean of such
Judge you, my Lord of Warwick, then, between us.
You that are honest, by being what you are,
Both, both, my lord.
The offer likes not: and the nimble gunner
Tamer than sleep, fonder than ignorance,
Ha! little honour to be much believed,
In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.
By the sweet power of music: therefore the poet
So, sir.
thyself a pleasure, me a sport. There are many
ANTIPHOLUS
A most extracting frenzy of mine own
Our king has all the Indies in his arms,
Why dost thou ask again?
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
Sebastian is thy name? I like thee well
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
As doth that orbed continent the fire
But is a-weary of thy common sight,
To our solemnity: I trust we shall,
I shall not find myself so apt to die:
Your mistresses dare never come in rain,
I shall do that that is reason.
Is come with a great power to raise the siege.
How poor are they that have not patience!
Sirrah, call in my sons to be my bail;
It must not be: if Cassio do remain,
I will implore: if not, i' the name of God,
the friend of France; for I love France so well that
'Tis not the land I care for, wert thou thence;
of valour; and drive the gentleman, as I know his
To cease! Wast thou ordain'd, dear father,
of visitors.
Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee:
Where what is done in action, more, if might,
Not being tried and tutor'd in the world:
I pray, my lord, pardon me; I took ye for my lord
The virtue of your eye must break my oath.
One horse, my lord, he brought even now.
I do arrest you, sir: you hear the suit.
He dies to-night.
Appear not like a guest.
If wind and fuel be brought to feed it with:
Who leads towards Rome a band of warlike Goths,
That can my speech defuse, my good intent
Storm still. Enter KENT and a Gentleman, meeting
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV sick, QUEEN  ELIZABETH, DORSET, RIVERS, HASTINGS, BUCKINGHAM, GREY, and others
Thou sayest true; they're too unwholesome, o'
A precious thing: I had it from the queen.
The fearful difference of incensed kings:
But conquer'd merely.
And from that womb where you imprison'd were
Forborne the getting of a lawful race,
He that takes that doth take my heart withal.
And I am sent expressly to your lordship.
Within my age. But reason with the fellow,
How close 'tis caulk'd and bitumed!
As to take up mine honour's pawn, then stoop:
This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spared
Away, you rogue! dost thou not hear them call?
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
Were growing time once ripen'd to my will.
Her eyes myself, could win me to believe,
And there assume some other horrible form,
My lord, 'tis rated
Ay, for fault of a better.
The legions now in Gallia sooner landed
porringer fell off her head, for kindling such a
Neighbour, well met: whither away so fast?
And, when thou hast done this chare, I'll give thee leave
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
To better purpose.
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
should like her? that but seeing you should love
Exeunt
Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer,
We are to reap the harvest of his son.
SCENE IV. Wales: before the cave of Belarius.
Ten masts at each make not the altitude
Froissart, a countryman of ours, records,
descend; my chambers are honourable: fie! privacy?
Thanks to your majesty.
With striving less to be so; lesser had been
With absolute Marina: so
To knock out an honest Athenian's brains.
God save you, brother.
For emulation hath a thousand sons
O diable!
What was his cause of anger?
In that it scorns to bear another hue;
Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER
And knowing this kingdom is without a head,--
et devin deesse?
discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall
Nor moody beggars, starving for a time
It may not be; good madam, pardon me.
SCENE II. Rousillon. Before the COUNT's palace.
Whose death indeed's the strongest in our censure:
Of an unbounded stomach, ever ranking
Suitors to her and rivals in my love,
But, as a brother to his sister, show'd
Why sinks that cauldron? and what noise is this?
And he and his competitors in oath
Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she
Very good. Give it nothing, I pray you, for it is
That silk will I go buy.
Had not you come upon your cue, my lord
And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald--
Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly:
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
Alas, it hath been great pains to you. They do you
With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks;
Now my soul's palace is become a prison:
Uncertain life, and sure death.
Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant,
Knocking within
Plucking it off
But let me hear the letter of your friend.
And give her as a prey to law and shame,
No, so God help me, they spake not a word;
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
How fares our noble uncle, Lancaster?
What is his strength by land?
As every present time doth boast itself
Were but a weak disabling of myself.
You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it
not speak of without he say 'Sir-reverence.' I have
Fed from my trencher, kneel'd down at the board.
Yet not the son, I will not call him son
What the devil art thou?
And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell,
[Reads]  'Fare thee well; and God have mercy upon
For him, and in his right, we hold this town.
that are fallible: tomorrow you must die; go to
My lord,
Very many, men and women too. I heard of one of
She looks upon them with a threatening eye.
Than baits to fish, or honey-stalks to sheep,
because I do. Look, here comes the duke.
Whoever spoke it, it is true, my lord.
The duke being at the Rose, within the parish
In sooth, you are to blame.
To your worship's house, sir?
Sir Proteus, save you! Saw you my master?
water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to
fulfilled: she lifted the princess from the earth,
His nobleness well acted, which your death
And, for myself, most part of all this night,
Peace be to England, if that war return
Whose boughs did bend with fruit: but in one night,
Boys, apes, braggarts, Jacks, milksops!
O, I am stabb'd with laughter! Where's her grace?
True, they are so:
grace's tharborough: but I would see his own person
The misery of Tarsus may be theirs.
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
That every eye which in this forest looks
An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.
But mine shall be a comfort to your age.
of the dog-days now reign in's nose; all that stand
the lists of the army will maintain upon Edmund,
I go, let me go with that I came; which is, with
Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,
Go with me to a notary, seal me there
any of his friends.
But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
O, our credit comes not in like the commodity, nor
But, stay: what news? Why comest thou in such post?
I pray you, have in mind where we must meet.
The Cardinal of Winchester forbids:
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, SLENDER, Host, SIR HUGH EVANS, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
comprehended two aspicious persons, and we would
change your trade; I'll be your tapster still.
Will have a wild trick of his ancestors.
You shall have any thing.
Enter MARK ANTONY and VENTIDIUS
Pray you, sir, was't not the wise woman of
And pardon'd the deceiver, dwell
Above ten thousand meaner moveables
I'll warrant they'll have him publicly shamed: and
So that but one heart we can make of it;
Nor any of his false confederates.
The princess comes to hunt here in the park,
Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed
We shall have old swearing
Of your best graces in your mind; the which
Is touch'd corruptibly, and his pure brain,
Recoil from your great stock.
says the fiend, 'and run.' Well, my conscience,
Leave me, friends.
Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be
I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs
never recover.
Treason is not inherited, my lord;
I pray you, know me when we meet again:
But you are more inhuman, more inexorable,
Are they not Athenians?
I humbly thank you for't.
Could I come near your beauty with my nails,
Carry them here and there; jumping o'er times,
Lead me to the revolts of England here.
We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
Do villany, do, since you protest to do't,
I perceive you delight not in music.
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
Call Claudius and some other of my men:
A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
There where my fortune lives, there my life dies.
And I do hope good days and long to see.
Call forth your soothsayer: as I slept, methought
Sound drums and trumpets! farewell sour annoy!
Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner,
So flew'd, so sanded, and their heads are hung
I am descended of a gentler blood:
How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me:
Who twice a-day their wither'd hands hold up
I have a brother is condemn'd to die:
Let all untruths stand by thy stained name,
that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me.
So far forth as herself might be her chooser,
Must give: for what? for lead? hazard for lead?
And state of bodies would bewray what life
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,
Weigh but the crime with this.
Something that's brief; and bid 'Good morrow, general.'
Is there no way for men to be but women
O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
it in your chamber, and not know who left it there!
They're come already from the christening:
So, at his sight, away his fellows fly;
How! Julia!
something to do with you. Come, you're a young
This morning to them.
The mayor is here at hand: intend some fear;
Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;
Exit Provost
Comes from my lord with letters.
Ah, wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands;
Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just,
Brach Merriman, the poor cur is emboss'd;
How now! what is't?
I am so fraught with curious business that
How many goodly creatures are there here!
I pray now, keep below.
Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good prince,
Bravely, coragio!
For the ingredients of our cauldron.
Freely will I speak. Antiochus you fear,
And with a virtuous vizard hide foul guile!
Thy rankest fault; all of them; and require
Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
Come, lead me to the block; bear him my head.
This from a dying man receive as certain:
Enter four or five Players
For what before it was.
In profiting by them. Nay, call us ten times frail;
Sure, it is hers.
Tranio, let's go: one thing more rests, that
Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
delivered the matter well, when I find the ass in
Is counted lost for ever, Perdita,
His name is Licio, born in Mantua.
With such things else of quality and respect
His excellence did earn it, ere he had it.
We scorn her most when most she offers blows.
My friend, I spy some pity in thy looks:
strangeness and tell me what I shall vent to my
Am I one, sir?
Why, that's the way
Where is the duke? 'tis he should hear me speak.
I marry her! what? a customer! Prithee, bear some
[To KING RICHARD III]
That bows unto the grave with mickle age.
I beseech your honour, one piece for me.
Know'st thou not, Bertram,
'Good den, sir Richard!'--'God-a-mercy, fellow!'--
And all their minds transfigured so together,
But let his disposition have that scope
So please you entertain me.
Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at death
But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth:
Cry 'Welcome, ladies, welcome!'
BISHOP
A ghostly father, belike. Who knows that Lodowick?
to hear it.
Enter YORK, SALISBURY, and WARWICK
Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,
And oftentimes excusing of a fault
Until the queen his mistress bury it.
Are lethargied--Ha! waking? 'tis not so.
I should do thus.
constrains a man to bow in the hams.
Go; and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in
and a quiet sword; by the means whereof a' breaks
As he cried 'Thus let be': to as much end
There are no tricks in plain and simple faith;
In the sweet pangs of it remember me;
Admiringly, my liege, at first
But speedily.
m'en vais a la cour--la grande affaire.
How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
I Pompey am,--
Let all the number of the stars give light
We fail!
Of his wings destitute, the army broken,
Can the son's eye behold his father bleed?
and down late; but notwithstanding,--to tell you in
Be blind with tears, and break o'ercharged with grief.
Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
Hath love in thy old blood no living fire?
But 'be thou true,' say I, to fashion in
SCENE VIII. Southwark.
beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.
I would not be a stander-by to hear
Even like a stony image, cold and numb.
Did I say 'better'?
That hath abused and dishonour'd me
Those which I heaved to head!--the good Posthumus--
reception of King, Princess, Lords,  and c.
cannot be denied what I have done by land.
Mistress Page! trust me, I was going to your house.
But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger:
And towards London they do bend their course,
I am no idle votarist: roots, you clear heavens!
May it please your grace,--
After them! nay, before them, if we can.
Three thousand ducats; 'tis a good round sum.
In a poor isle and all of us ourselves
'Tis not the first time I have constrained one to
In our well-found successes, to report
To be produced--as, if I stay, I shall--
He stamps with his foot and the soldiers show themselves
Shall blow each dust, each straw, each little rub,
Ye favourites of a king: are we not high?
Did gibe my missive out of audience.
Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk,
Fiery? the fiery duke? Tell the hot duke that--
No, when my father York and Edward wept,
Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty;
Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
to breed it in?--When came this to you? who
that you are little better than false knaves; and it
Pale or red?
Which our profane hours here have stricken down.
Uncle, you say the queen is at your house;
Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,
That stays to bear my letters to my friends,
Iden, kneel down.
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, with her hair about her ears; RIVERS, and DORSET after her
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
MISTRESS PAGE and MISTRESS FORD come forward
Hautboys. Enter KING HENRY VIII and others, as  masquers, habited like shepherds, ushered by the  Chamberlain. They pass directly before CARDINAL WOLSEY, and gracefully salute him
You must not be so quick.
And so I was; which plainly signified
[Within]  Ay, when fowls have no feathers and fish have no fin.
men, what you have to the king: being something
O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear:
For their advantage and your highness' loss.
And spoil your nobler soul: I say, take heed;
'Twas time, I trow, to wake and leave our beds,
I have a suit unto your lordship.
SCENE IV. Paris. The palace.
I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine
Why, it contains no king?
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
Myself have to mine own turn'd enemy:
If thou didst know me, thou wouldest talk with me.
That knows no touch to tune the harmony:
After so many hours, lives, speeches spent,
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
That nature makes. You see, sweet maid, we marry
Proclaimed a strumpet: with immodest hatred
one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus to borrow
Without the taste of danger and reproof:
It did not lie there when I went to bed.
When you and I met at Saint Alban's last,
ACT V
Kills SATURNINUS. A great tumult. LUCIUS, MARCUS, and others go up into the balcony
Have comfort, for I know your plight is pitied
Stay, Whitmore; for thy prisoner is a prince,
Exeunt some with KING EDWARD IV and QUEEN MARGARET
For there was never yet philosopher
Comest thou because the anointed king is hence?
Before proud Athens he's set down by this,
Your enemies and his find something in him.
your monster, and the devil take your fingers!
My rightful hand in a well-hallow'd cause.
'Tis meet he be condemn'd by course of law.
Seeing his dead father
But, to prevent the tyrant's violence,--
cripple. But this reasoning is not in the fashion to
Have not more gift in taciturnity.
protest, I have dealt most directly in thy affair.
He may recover yet.
For the intent and purpose of the law
Welcome home, Grumio!
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
What, with the case of eyes?
The deeds of mercy. I have spoke thus much
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
And we will nothing waste till you return.
I wish you now, then;
And live to be the show and gaze o' the time:
But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him:
The armourer and his man, to enter the lists,
Who lies i' the second chamber?
she carves, she gives the leer of invitation: I
For three performers are the file when all
Mine, fifty talents.
Exeunt
The perdition of th' athversary hath been very
Must he be then as shadow of himself?
He calls me to a restitution large
O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
That labour may you save: see where he comes.
Which all too much I have bestow'd on thee.
Gives way to us, I much fear. If you cannot
But I might master it: in faith, I lie;
Here, sir.
To entertain these fair well-spoken days,
I will not fail her; speak it privately.
duke: and I believe I know the cause of his
'Twill vex thy soul to hear what I shall speak;
His body couched in a curious bed,
She may be honest yet. Tell me but this,
I slew the coward, and did take it from him.
What, wilt thou kneel with me?
Keep there: now talk at pleasure of your safety.
The leading of thine own revenges, take
one need not lend to another; for, were your
O Caesar,
Then for the truth and plainness of the case.
SCENE IV. Another part of the forest.
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS QUICKLY, and WILLIAM PAGE
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
In truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker: but,
As if the world should cleave, and that slain men
They have their exits and their entrances;
Hear from me still, and never of me aught
an he had stayed by him, I would not have been so
A creature of the queen's, Lady Anne Bullen.'
Ay, master.
Is poison to thy stomach.
hither: I must employ him in a letter to my love.
Is ruminated, plotted and set down,
sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times
A madman so long, now a fool. What, think'st
Thou to me thy secrets tell.
Under their blessed wings!
I know thou dost; and, sweet Revenge, farewell.
They turn to vicious forms, ten times more ugly
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Was re-united to the crown of France.
Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook, what I have
Exit
Which he did thrice refuse: was this ambition?
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
Kill Claudio.
me ass: I beseech you, let it be remembered in his
By day and night he wrongs me; every hour
It yet hath felt no age nor known no sorrow.
I am content you shall entreat me stay;
Corrupt the tender honour of a maid:
Our scouts have found the adventure very easy:
Without the form of justice, yet our power
Welcome from Egypt, sir.
Provoked by him, you cannot--the great danger
To barbarous licence; as 'tis ever common
I was a fine fool to take it. I must take out the
With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath,
Upon the hempen tackle ship-boys climbing;
Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.
As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band
This fellow's of exceeding honesty,
have her, Master Brook; Master Brook, you shall
Being all descended to the labouring heart;
fellow! Go thy way, Hector! There's a brave man,
Enter Priest,  and c. in procession; the Corpse of  OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains,  and c
Exit
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, at several doors
they'ld do't!
Let's call more help to have them bound again.
feeling of thy speech: I will, out of thine own
Forsaken your pernicious faction
Within thine eyes sat twenty thousand deaths,
Bring them before us.
less to you.
fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus
mistress enforced; thy garments cut to pieces before
Which can make gods forsworn? I melt, and am not
Art thou against us, Duke of Exeter?
They draw and fight
to reason of such goddesses and hath sent this
And from the powdering tub of infamy
Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
I will enchant the old Andronicus
To temper poisons for her, still pretending
So! in the name of Jesu Christ, speak lower. It is
Dare bite the best. I do beseech your lordships,
tick in a sheep than such a valiant ignorance.
O, I am out of breath in this fond chase!
the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and
What shall we do? let us, that have our tongues,
No.
I guess thy message. Is the queen deliver'd?
Will you hear me, Roderigo?
Instance, O instance! strong as heaven itself;
For, heaven to earth, some of us never shall
Exit MARCIUS
Enter two or three Gentlemen
By virtue, thou enforcest laughter; thy silly
These many, then, shall die; their names are prick'd.
And solemnly see him set on to London.
must serve me to feed on.
cried and shrieked at it, that it passed: but women,
And I have heard it said, unbidden guests
Where there was no proportion held in love.
excellent sweet lady; and, out of all suspicion,
butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of
A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.
villany should be so rich; for when rich villains
tricks which sorrow shoots
be strange, stout, in yellow stockings, and
You had not show'd them how ye were disposed
With this my son, Prince Edward, Henry's heir,
Each jealous of the other, as the stung
What, is't murder?
Sent by the king your father
He could never come better; he shall come in. I
But, as thou lovest thy life, make speed from hence.
That here you maintain several factions,
What trick, what device, what starting-hole, canst
Ay, now begin our sorrows to approach:
Rich only in large hurts. All those for this?
An otter, Sir John! Why an otter?
And the gods doom him after!
The fatal balls of murdering basilisks:
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
Exit
I tell you, 'twill sound harshly in her ears.
I found him under a tree, like a dropped acorn.
Like urchins, ouphes and fairies, green and white,
But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confined, bound in
Sirrah Costard, I will enfranchise thee.
Meet I an infant of the house of York,
Of this my privacy
Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
Bear witness, all that have not hearts of iron,
here in the forest on the duke your father.
they were as cold as any stone, and so upward and
supper to-morrow night in Eastcheap: we may do it
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
Enter AENEAS
As that whereof I had the government,
therefore blessed? No: as a walled town is more
As in good time he may, from Ireland coming,
Exeunt all but HAMLET
I shall unfold equal discourtesy
Till then farewell, sir: she must needs go in;
draws on. Now, the hot-blooded gods assist me!
pour tout le monde. Foh! le foot et le coun!
No more the thirsty entrance of this soil
Should have ascended to the roof of heaven,
But Ajax is their fool.
Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
That it enchants my sense: what will it be,
And as wondrous affable and as bountiful
Shrewdness of policy too, I grieving grant
A true-devoted pilgrim is not weary
What means this shouting? I do fear, the people
Forthwith a power of English shall we levy;
Get thee away.
Thou'rt an honest man.
But thought's the slave of life, and life time's fool;
Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman;
Where should he find it fairer than in Blanch?
Most like a noble lord in love and one
What's he that now is going out of door?
I have told your lordship already, the stocks carry
Cover your heads and mock not flesh and blood
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
'Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep:
My lord, you nod; you do not mind the play.
From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit:
Exit
At your own house; there he unarms him.
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight:
Your wondrous rare description, noble earl,
In the division of each several crime,
Or shall we on without a apology?
if thou beest a devil, take't as thou list.
Call them forth.
Beware you lose it not: for us, if you please
I have no other, but a woman's reason;
Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy.
From the report that goes upon your goodness;
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
SCENE IV. Country near Milford-Haven.
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
There's something in me that reproves my fault;
king, and the dukes: it is no time to discourse. The
O Antony, beg not your death of us.
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
Who, all enraged, will banish Valentine;
Prove this a prosperous day, the three-nook'd world
Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
Exeunt, with a dead march
May say 'This mercy we have show'd;' the Romans,
Turn terror into sport: as weeds before
Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips,
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
There is not chastity enough in language
Exeunt AENEAS and Trojans
it grows, yet youth, the more it is wasted the
Ancient, what makes he here?
And with an unthrift love did run from Venice
A woman.
But he shall know I am as good--
They shake their heads
True; and thou seest that I no issue have
For, to yourself, what you do know, you must.
I do constantly believe you. The time is come even
Was't you that revell'd in our parliament,
And bid him speak of patience;
More than I dare make faults. You few that loved me,
By this device.
Make not your thoughts your prisons: no, dear queen;
divide a minute into a thousand parts and break but
And Humphrey Duke of Gloucester scarce himself,
I beseech you.
Made up to the deed, doth push on this proceeding:
calls not on me? Well, 'tis no matter; honour pricks
Achieved her mistress.
Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing.
Dies
God keep you from them, and from such false friends!
Well, here he comes.
Art not afeard?
on myself, must I? You have not the Book of Riddles
If ever sat at any good man's feast,
Upon mine honour,--
Even thou and none but thou. Take it up straight:
She is an heir of Falconbridge.
Then here I take my leave of thee, fair son,
Fair fall the bones that took the pains for me!--
strawberries.
And in Apollos name, his oracle.
Master Hume, that you be by her aloft, while we be
Marry, she hath received your letter, for the which
Upon the crown o' the cliff, what thing was that
Fair sir, and you my merry mistress,
Enter in state, CYMBELINE, QUEEN, CLOTEN,  and Lords at one door, and at another, CAIUS LUCIUS and Attendants
Let's purge this choler without letting blood:
To BASSANIO
A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin,
Dionyza does appear,
score hogsheads. I have sounded the very
Your creatures, who by you have been restored:
How now, Signior Launce! what news with your
Jove knows what man thou mightst have made; but I,
This inundation of mistemper'd humour
Forerun fair Love, strewing her way with flowers.
Blemish'd his gracious dam: this is not, no,
Though you perceive me not how I give line.
SCENE V. Britain. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
impossible,--
To break within the bloody house of life,
It is our pleasure one of them depart;
Or else refusing me, to wed this shepherd:
Nor posted off their suits with slow delays;
You charge not in your spleen a noble person
the parliament of England.
By virtue of that ring, I take my cause
Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
Call that same Isabel here once again; I would speak with her.
Peace, headstrong Warwick!
Whether till the next night she had rather stay,
I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
lords, and gentlemen, with their coaches, I warrant
But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier,
claw no man in his humour.
Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor poor dumb mouths,
One, two, three: time, time!
The same indeed; a very valiant fellow.
To present your highness with the man.
And he shall marry her: the nuptial finish'd,
Lord bishop, set the crown upon his head.
Not so big as a round little worm
Hear me, O, hear me!
Music. Dance
Poor and content is rich and rich enough,
Here I am, thou particular fellow.
I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to
I know no touch of consanguinity;
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
A league between his highness and Ferrara.
I think 'twas Soto that your honour means.
Thou'rt a good boy: this secrecy of thine shall be
But then AEneas bare a living load,
Immediately provided in that case.
Now, Decius Brutus, yours: now yours, Metellus;
And now like Nilus, it disdaineth bounds.
A sad tale's best for winter: I have one
Will you subscribe his thought, and say he is?
And spit upon my Jewish gaberdine,
That you divest yourself, and lay apart
His soldiers spying his undaunted spirit
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
That married with Othello.
He gives me so much of mine own, as I
I would they had not come between us.
Too headstrong for their mother. See, we fools!
Rugby, my rapier!
Or else conclude my words effectual.
country. 'Steal by line and level' is an excellent
Throned and set high?--servants, who seem no less,
For me, if I be gored with Mowbray's spear:
Villains, forbear! we are the empress' sons.
them had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
To set his sense on the attentive bent,
Shook as the earth did quake;
Enter BERTRAM
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
The heart of Antony, Octavia is
There was, mine host, an old fat woman even now with
It will come,
'Slight, will you make an ass o' me?
O, I am slain! famine and no other hath slain me:
Sir,
'Tis France, for England.
What grows of it, no matter; advise your fellows so:
Not so, I do beseech your majesty.
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
Will bear the knave by the volume. The honour'd gods
Your name, fair gentlewoman?
Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave
That shapes this monstrous apparition.
Exeunt
And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
grant? and will you persever to enjoy her?
I know you would be prouder of the work
Then he was urged to tell my tale again,
She was the fairest creature in the world;
And give true evidence to his love, which stands
Take from my heart all thankfulness! The gods
That hour destroy us?
And stole into the covert of the wood:
But there's but one in all doth hold his place:
Learning is but an adjunct to ourself
hope neither.
This way, my lord; for this way lies the game.
Madam, an if my brother had my shape,
What hast thou done? thou hast mistaken quite
Then cannot we be bought: and so, adieu;
What my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
And the youth, mistook by me,
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
And may it be that you have quite forgot
These are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i'
Your lady seeks my life; come you between,
Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of
Falstaff's a knave, a cuckoldly knave; here are his
And do as I have bid you.
ACT V
And brought desired help from Burgundy:
Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty,
I'll keep shut: now, of another thing she may, and
Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower,
speech of him.
That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,
To SILVIUS
For I am Welsh, you know, good countryman.
I take thee at thy word:
Till all these mischiefs be return'd again
Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
Mail'd up in shame, with papers on my back,
Art not thou the Lady Olivia's fool?
That in himself which he spurs on his power
others to the inns of court; down with them all.
Should he make me
Was it discretion, lords, to let this man,
What, in our house?
Bless you, fair shrew.
I will not come to-day: tell them so, Decius.
sheep-cote! all deaths are too few, the sharpest too easy.
thyself into the trick of singularity;' and
No, with no more than if we heard that England
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
My commendations great, whose merit's less.
'And in part him; but' you may say 'not well:
We do.
And feed on curds and whey, and suck the goat,
Drum and colours. Enter KING HENRY, GLOUCESTER, and Soldiers
Set them into confounding odds, that beasts
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
Shaken with sorrows in ungrateful Rome.
It should seem, fellow, that thou hast not seen the
Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
Ay, sir; there are a crew of wretched souls
Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down;
of his will.
And is it true that I must go from Troy?
I'll assure you, a' uttered as brave words at the
For so your father charged me at our parting,
Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
Hail!
Those men you talk of came into my mind.
I chanced on this letter.
Till further settling.
I have sworn to do it;
You cannot, if my heart were in your hand;
I weep myself to think upon thy words.
Against my near'st of life: and though I could
Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.
Ay, sir; like who more bold.
Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock:
This is a poor epitome of yours,
We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
Let me alone.
Enter ANTIOCHUS, Prince PERICLES, and followers
Here, here she comes. I'll have a bout with thee;
The words of Mercury are harsh after the songs of
And as my duty springs, so perish they
No more than when my daughters call thee mother.
Than one on's ears to hear it? Proceed, Cominius.
will also be the bondage of certain ribbons and gloves.
Nay, if the gentle spirit of moving words
For such as I am all true lovers are,
Kisses her
Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from
Now in the stirring passage of the day,
Which most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion
base for a soldier to love, so am I in love with a
My love can give no place, bide no denay.
give him gold; and though authority be a stubborn
ACT I
finder of occasions, that has an eye can stamp and
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
This is no witness for Lord Angelo.
Turn him to any cause of policy,
prison; and there's Madam Juliet.
Yet, for necessity of present life,
And if I die, no soul shall pity me:
And found--dispatch. The noble duke my master,
He will allow no speech, which I do guess
Will well become such sweet-complaining grievance.
What's the matter?
is the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatrice
Is in opinion and in honour wrong'd;
Follow me!
slaughter-house: therefore thus will I reward thee,
Would I were in an alehouse in London! I would give
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon,
And like the tyrannous breathing of the north
What says Lucentio to this shame of ours?
To make room for him in my husband's bed:
If I had said I had seen him do you wrong?
Bishop of Winchester. But know, I come not
Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
To the rock, to the rock with him!
He bears him on the place's privilege,
Nay, it is in a manner done already;
Re-enter Thisbe
What say you, Scarlet and John?
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
My lord, I know not, I, nor can I guess,
To have bless'd mine eyes with her!
No, gentle madam; I unworthy am
He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say,
Which is as thin of substance as the air
Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
It turns in less than two nights? O you gods,
And so
To plead for that which I would not obtain,
SCENE IV. The same. Pandarus' house.
They fight
Which love to all, of which thyself art one,
There will be woe indeed, lords: the sly whoresons
To the cardinal's:
philosophical persons, to make modern and familiar,
Alack, I have no eyes.
Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome.
DON
Thus says my king: Say thou to Harry of England:
Last night she enjoined me to write some lines to
The king was slily finger'd from the deck!
It would be spoke to.
In that thou laid'st a trap to take my life,
moon; or, rather, the sun, and not the moon; for it
Buy lads, or else your lasses cry: Come buy.
Each putter-out of five for one will bring us
Go thou with them; and in the emperor's court
And I will give a taste of it forthwith
What is your will that I shall do with this?
At thy service.
No, by my soul; I never in my life
As to rejoice at friends but newly found.
I wis your grandam had a worser match.
Now can I break my fast, dine, sup and sleep,
Re-enter GUIDERIUS, with CLOTEN'S head
Caesar, having made use of him in the wars 'gainst
In what he did profess, well found.
O, hardness to dissemble!--
And many miles, the princess bids you tell
I am worse than e'er I was.
Ready for his friends.
And he that throws not up his cap for joy
May be possessed with some store of crowns;
Patience, good sir,
Justice with favour have I always done;
For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends,
With you, goodman boy, an you please: come, I'll
Let my presumption not provoke thy wrath;
Like it your grace,
I prithee now, to bed.
To Edward, but not to the English king.
Came to the field and vanquished his foes:
And bear the palm alone.
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
raw rheumatic day!
Go, hop me over every kennel home,
That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood? Be gone!
That ever lived in the tide of times.
Ay, he.
And yet I know not how to get the crown,
How now, mistress!
own fingers: therefore he that cannot lick his
Let me alone. Dost thou use to write thy name? or
And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow,
Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed,
Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
Brown, madam: and her forehead
It must not bear my daughter.
Being distress'd, was by that wretch betray'd,
His valour, coin and people, in the wars?
Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts
Most probable
No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison:
And I proclaim'd a coward through the world!
But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand,
'Fore your own eyes and ears?
Or with this paper shall I stop it: Hold, sir:
Her love is not the hare that I do hunt:
not what I seek, show no colour for my extremity; let
Would not a pair of these have bred, sir?
A lie that it must bear? Well, I will do't:
am the dog: no, the dog is himself, and I am the
To come ashore. Therefore, you men of Harfleur,
In killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs,
Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer,
Than doth, within a dull, stale, tired bed,
That seeks not to find that her search implies,
High sparks of honour in thee have I seen.
Is my kinsman, whom the king hath wrong'd,
If by strong hand you offer to break in
This she? no, this is Diomed's Cressida:
draw a sword to kill himself; which the ladies
Why I descend into this bed of death,
Proud lord, thou liest:
King John, this is the very sum of all;
Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter,
Within these three days let me hear thee say
She was too good for me: but, as I said,
Cesario is your servant's name, fair princess.
Turn face to face and bloody point to point;
By the four opposing coigns
Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues;
Do rush upon us as their hungry prey.
Or God will punish me. I do believe,
If it do come to pass
'Faith, I must ravish her, or she'll disfurnish us
With many bitter threats of biding there.
Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
SCENE X. Another part of the plain.
Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait
I pray you, show my youth old Shylock's house.
And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
and one, even at the turning o' the tide: for after
hai!
That in mine ear I durst not stick a rose
If he should still malignantly remain
Were then but subjects; being now a subject,
love thee,
And till it be undoubted, we do lock
Fleance his son, that keeps him company,
[Aside]  Now will I fetch the king to find them here,
He's poor in no one fault, but stored with all.
If thou be'st death, I'll give thee England's treasure,
The county will be here with music straight,
What two crowns shall they be?
In every mess have folly and the feeders
With oath kept waking and with brawling fed:
Who is the suitor? who is the suitor?
Like true, inseparable, faithful loves,
Firm and irrevocable is my doom
With one of Priam's daughters.
I pray thee, Buckingham, go and meet him,
For in thy shoulder do I build my seat,
He goes before me and still dares me on:
A merchant of incomparable wealth.
Abated captives to some nation
It would be my disgrace and your discomfort:
There's no harm done.
Poor Clarence did forsake his father, Warwick;
No, no, good night: I'll be your fool no more.
Directive by the limbs.
Your voices: for your voices I have fought;
Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
kill'd him.
If not to answer, you might haply think
O Lord, sir, they would know
To mend the petty present, I will piece
Of no allowance to your bosom's truth.
As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee
That the old carlot once was master of.
Can draw him but to answer thee in aught,
You know your places: God be with you all!
Even so remorseless have they borne him hence;
And I again, in Henry's royal name,
with honesty?
I'll rob none but myself; and let me die,
Upon the hills adjoining to the city
could say she were worse: think you of a worse
it will feed my revenge. He hath disgraced me, and
hope to come upon them in the heat of their division.
But shall't be shortly?
But she, being mortal, of that boy did die;
I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
[Aside]          O, 'tis too true!
Those scraps are good deeds past; which are devour'd
The mouse ne'er shunn'd the cat as they did budge
heart wept blood. Who was most marble there changed
your eyes so fast?
From these that my poor company detest:
This side is Hiems, Winter, this Ver, the Spring;
With old Menenius, and those senators
There's no time for a man to recover his hair that
With what his valour did enrich his wit,
think this was well counterfeited! I pray you, tell
The state or fortune fall into my keeping,
And so should these, if I might have my will.
And replant Henry in his former state.
May fright the hopeful mother at the view;
Or else what follows?
What profane wretch art thou?
Nay, it's no matter for that.
Yet my good will is great, though the gift small.
obtained her, give her to Count Claudio.
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
Have done, have done; here comes the gentleman.
You were kneel'd to and importuned otherwise
Thou art too noble to conserve a life
Her welcome friendly.
And sure I am two men there are not living
Hath yielded up his body to the grave;
He holds your temper in a high respect
An ante-chamber adjoining Imogen's apartments.
Has crept too near his conscience.
it: I loved you not.
Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you;
Must be digested, give a favour from you
A marble monument!
Marina was she call'd; and at her birth,
Have torn their souls by turning them from us,
you, Cassio? is he not a most profane and liberal
fairer. He that is proud eats up himself: pride is
Will these turtles be gone?
O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch!
Brother of England, you blaspheme in this.
That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,
Badly, I fear. How fares your majesty?
His rage can do on me: you must be gone;
with you to your chapel?
His practises to light?
Then is sin struck down like an ox, and iniquity's
indeed; but how honourable he is in that, I know not.
the wind is loud, and will not lie till the ship be
Ten thousand worse than ever yet I did
Save thou the child, so we may all be safe.
The very all of all is,--but, sweet heart, I do
We see yonder the beginning of the day, but I think
traverse; to see thee here, to see thee there; to
SCENE IV. A room in ANGELO's house.
Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife
Thou that beget'st him that did thee beget;
What should you fear?
God speed the parliament! who shall be the speaker?
Before not dreamt of.
are not mine.
Gentlewoman, my lady calls.
He then that is not furnish'd in this sort
I know you think to dine with me to-day,
Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.
May we see them?
There's daggers in men's smiles: the near in blood,
I go, Andronicus: and for thy hand
Now happy he whose cloak and cincture can
The love of him, and this respect besides,
Is his to use, so Somerset may die.
Exit Servant
The meaning, pretty ingenious?
Since you are strangers and come here by chance,
Ay, sir.
Lead on to some foul issue: we all kneel.
It is the lesser blot, modesty finds,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
the Worthy, but I am to stand for him.
And tell me who is victor, York or Warwick?
notable fellow.
Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars,
The rascal people, thirsting after prey,
Exeunt all but KENT and Gentleman
Nay, nay, to the purpose.
O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
Prepare to lodge their companies to-night.
years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old
with the fashions, full of wingdalls, sped with
And is't not pity, O my grieved friends,
I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest,
But Romeo may not: more validity,
I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
And should, if I were worthy to be judge,
When priests are more in word than matter;
John Duke of Alencon, Anthony Duke of Brabant,
Sirrah, come on; go along with us.
To pray for her? what, is she crying out?
The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife
Your brother is imprison'd by your means,
Ever since you loved her.
Thy father was the Duke of Milan and
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
Although they gave their creatures in abundance,
The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
borrows of the moon, when Diomed keeps his
Possess us, possess us; tell us something of him.
Thy paleness moves me more than eloquence;
Five hundred were but yesterday dubb'd knights:
I do arrest you in his highness' name;
No; God forbid your grace should be forsworn.
O, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly
man's good wit seconded with the forward child
If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it:
I think she means to tangle my eyes too!
Our late edict shall strongly stand in force:
We need no more of your advice: the matter,
Even such a body: here I am Antony:
Though he be as good a gentleman as the devil is, as
But yet, you see how soon the day o'ercast.
Wherein we are not destitute for want,
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left
cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes,--
if the bear be gone from the gentleman and how much
Immediately to leave you and be gone.
I got this ring: 'twas Leonatus' jewel;
The worst is this, that, at so slender warning,
Forgive my tyranny; but do not say
cousin will say so.
Which we disdain should tatter us, yet sought
For your conversion. Now your traveller,
house; and what they made there, I know not. Well,
[To the Soothsayer]  The ides of March are come.
So kind to heart, 'tis not enough to give;
To his great master; who, thereat enraged,
And as the butcher takes away the calf
is slow of; of her purse she shall not, for that
To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.
Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
Is not here passable.
Deserved this so dishonour'd rub, laid falsely
Of Timon man and all humanity!
It is too late; I cannot send them now:
Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress Ford.
God bless your worship!
We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.
like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at
speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight:
He lessens his requests; and to thee sues
Come, thou tortoise! when?
But wherefore grieve I at an hour's poor loss,
But long I will not be Jack out of office:
To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee:
And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?
Gentle Lavinia, let me kiss thy lips.
Refused most princely gifts, am bound to beg
I come to know your pleasure.
An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.
Believe't, till I wept too.
Because they are not eight?
Fainting, despair; despairing, yield thy breath!
Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty:
And tumble me into some loathsome pit,
Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is 'like me.'
you any good; and that is but a kind of bastard
To lose so bad employment; in the which
pipe; no, the bagpipe could not move you: he sings
Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't
Have by my means been butcher'd wrongfully!
Take him hence:
But, host, doth this Sir Proteus that we talk on
Might have found easy fines: but there to end
How say you, madam? are you now persuaded
Will to your mother, to entreat of her
She has a huswife's hand; but that's no matter:
The garden here is more convenient.
SCENE I. London. The palace.
SCENE I. A forest in the north of England.
Whether this be
the humour of it is too hot, that is the very
Ajax renown'd. O heavens, what some men do,
Touch'd you the bastardy of Edward's children?
As little is the wisdom, where the flight
Have done the time more benefit and graced
Behind our rock; and let it to the sea,
Not that, I hope, which you received of me.
Of hostile arms! myself myself confound!
That you and I should meet upon such terms
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.
my life, except my life.
By your furtherance I am clothed in steel;
I prithee, name the time, but let it not
Hundreds he sent to hell, and none durst stand him;
I do believe that these applauses are
And even there, his eye being big with tears,
No light, no fire: the unfriendly elements
And will that thou henceforth attend on us.
I saw thee late at the Count Orsino's.
How were they lost? what treachery was used?
Exeunt
Re-enter the PRINCESS, ushered by BOYET, ROSALINE, MARIA, and KATHARINE
To worship shadows and adore false shapes,
How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
And bring thy master home immediately.
Peace, I say, Gallia and Gaul, French and Welsh,
Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm?
You will the sooner, that I were away;
Moved! in good time: let him that moved you hither
This is the gentleman I told your ladyship
Enter the Page as a lady, with attendants
O, this is trim!
Is gone, we know not how nor where.
Go, clear thy c rystals. Yoke-fellows in arms,
O, touch me not; I am not Stephano, but a cramp.
I would forgive him, for if he love me to madness, I
As I had title in thy noble husband!
Had left no mourning widows for our death;
An if this be at all, a most strange story.
This bawd, this broker, this all-changing word,
Of charity, what kin are you to me?
What, resists he? Help him, Lucio.
Thou hast been whipp'd for following him: henceforth
Shake in their fear and with pale policy
Nor no one here; for curses never pass
Brought near to beast: my face I'll grime with filth;
I do lament the sickness of the king.
That undergo this charge? who else but I,
And call him noble that was now your hate,
That he suspects none: on whose foolish honesty
Away! for thou hast stay'd us here too long.
We'll wait upon your grace till after supper,
For that which, if myself might be his judge,
what of that? if it please the eye of one, it is
My lord, I long to hear it at full.
me to the semblance I put on; with the which I doubt
Within these two months, that's a month before
Besides, he tells me that, if peradventure
If I cannot recover your niece, I am a foul way out.
But he fell to himself again, and sweetly
think it fit to shore them again and that the
If they demand: beware of being captives,
None at all.
Harry the Sixth bids thee despair, and die!
For being yare about him.
I speak no more than what my soul intends;
When he had carried Rome and that we look'd
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
While she chats him: the kitchen malkin pins
Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March:
Only fair speech.
That labour on the bosom of this sphere
And she will sing the song that pleaseth you
Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.
The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
Be intelligent to me: 'tis thereabouts;
Let every soldier hew him down a bough
We were awaked; straightway, at liberty;
Exeunt Servants
But fierce Andronicus would not relent;
My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
Because till now we never saw your face:
I' faith, he'll have a lusty widow now,
Call 'em; let me see 'em.
And Somerset, with Oxford fled to her:
As if besmear'd in hell. Sit by us; you shall hear--
For wise men are grown foppish,
Marry, here's grace and a cod-piece; that's a wise
O, now you look like Hubert! all this while
To all his lands and signories: when he's return'd,
Would suffer him to spend his youth at home,
Dishonour not her honourable name,
About my moneys and my usances:
which now we'll show 'em in deeds. They say poor
Knows almost every grain of Plutus' gold,
The noblest mind he carries
Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.
Besides, the seeing these effects will be
commiseration on thy heroical vassal! The
How now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son?
But felt a fever of the mad and play'd
Marry, 'tis not monstrous in you, neither wish I
Press not a falling man too far! 'tis virtue:
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
I come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you,
Hear you, cousin; a word.
To what effect?
I'll pour this pestilence into his ear,
But I attest the gods, your full consent
Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil,
This is clean kam.
As I suck blood, I will some mercy show.
lordship sees the bottom of his success in't, and to
Sweet rest his soul! Fly, lords, and save yourselves;
Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge,
To make my lady laugh when she's disposed,
SCENE VII. Verona. JULIA'S house.
Why, the house you dwell in proclaims you to be a
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Was sent to by my brother; one Lucio
leads to the broad gate and the great fire.
As if they vow'd some league inviolable:
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
I doubt not but thy training hath been noble.
ACT II
Of England's chair, where he is falsely set;
Forerunning more requital.
Master, I have gone through for this piece, you see:
would she were hearsed at my foot, and the ducats in
Made wars upon me; and their contestation
A proper title of a peace; and purchased
notwithstanding, I fear not my ring.
Weighing the youthful season of the year.
Glory grows guilty of detested crimes,
Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in,
No, my good lord;
To the ground, mistress.
Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
But I bethink me what a weary way
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter;
Enter a Gentleman, with Attendants
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
As much as child e'er loved, or father found;
They converse apart
No: let my father seek another heir.
That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads,
As they were living; think you see them great,
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
Exit
hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my
It were a better death than die with mocks,
Have I not in my time heard lions roar?
On what occasion, God he knows, not I,
What's the disease he means?
Thou saw'st them, when I had prosperity.
Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
to lie as to live chastely. Therefore, go back.
art thou not drowned, Stephano? I hope now thou art
Victorious Talbot! pardon my abuse:
She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there:
They should find easy penance.
I would be trebled twenty times myself;
Enter KING, frowning on them; takes his seat
Where hope is coldest and despair most fits.
Well, I will back him straight: O esperance!
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest;
I would I had that corporal soundness now,
Your tender kinsman and to choke his days
Shall bear the business in some other fight,
Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
Alas, poor fool! why do I pity him
But who can cease to weep and look on this?
Question enrages him. At once, good night:
That's something yet: Edgar I nothing am.
Stay, fellow; I can read.
The thing I shall repent. See, see, your silence,
From whence he intercepted did return
Why you have given me such clear lights of favour,
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
My lord, I claim your gift, my due by promise,
Enter OLIVER
Neither, my lord.
With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well opposed.
How now! what means death in this rude assault?
The silence often of pure innocence
How dost thou feel thyself now?
An honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
I'll hang my head and perish.
Exit
Or hollowly put on.
Nay, good Lysander; for my sake, my dear,
here follows prose.
That neither singly can be manifested,
orchard like a bum-baily: so soon as ever thou seest
Let me go to him.
Accompany the greatness of thy blood
'Tis much when sceptres are in children's hands;
King John, your king and England's doth approach,
Why, no, boy; nothing can be made out of nothing.
This news is mortal to the queen: look down
Sure, there's some wonder in this handkerchief:
Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd
and I shall procure-a you de good guest, de earl,
That knew'st this was the prince,
Run away, I pray you!
Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter,
As I come out: this action I now go on
Wilt lay the leaven on all proper men;
[Aside]  If that be call'd deceit, I will be honest,
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
And he did bid us follow to the temple.
I would know that.
Let me in safety raise me from my knees
Thou art my heir; the rest I wish thee gather:
how is't with you, man?
Our ears are cudgell'd; not a word of his
What, is the man lunatic?
He did incline to sadness, and oft-times
Would you would bear your fortune like a man!
Why, are ye mad? or know ye not, in Rome
Determine this great war in single fight!
He that hath lost her too; so is the queen,
Confirm his welcome with some special favour.
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
He cried upon it at the merest loss
And paint your face and use you like a fool.
Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
Of all that virtue love for virtue loved:
To Germany, there with the emperor
And that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
And we will make thee famous through the world.
The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the
Hum!
SCENE II. Before the council-chamber. Pursuivants, Pages,  and c.
A great-sized monster of ingratitudes:
a man doth of a Death's-head or a memento mori: I
[To WARWICK]  My lord ambassador, these letters are for you,
Mist-like, infold me from the search of eyes.
To what we wildly do, so we profess
By this our mother is forever shamed.
warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer, as
that she would have followed her exile, or have died
The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
Would have reverted to my bow again,
How now, lady!
Out, dog! out, cur! thou drivest me past the bounds
Whose fault is this?
virgins might blow up men?
[Aside to ISABELLA]   That's well said.
Upon offenders, hath exceeded law,
Have with you, mine host.
Do I stand there? I never had a brother;
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
Disgracing of these colours that I wear
You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella
Hath given the dare to Caesar, and commands
Richer than sea and land? O, theft most base,
Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth.
Than young Alcides, when he did redeem
Petruchio, since we are stepp'd thus far in,
Let it not be believed for womanhood!
the ditch-dog; drinks the green mantle of the
Is to make midnight mushrooms, that rejoice
Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
Enter CLEOPATRA led by CHARMIAN and IRAS; EROS following
purse of wit, thou pigeon-egg of discretion. O, an
He bids you name your griefs; and with all speed
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
Lychorida, her nurse, she takes,
I' the war do grow together: grant that, and tell me,
Hear me with patience.
All the commerce that you have had with Troy
Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none;
If this be true, which makes me pale to read it?
Yes, so please your majesty. I did go between them,
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
wore when he took leave of my lady and mistress.
Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
But know I think and think I know most sure
Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed;
I'll eat nothing, I thank you, sir.
To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
And let us do it with no show of fear;
I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus,
if her breath were as terrible as her terminations,
From the presence of the sun,
And he shall signify from time to time
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
A handkerchief; which, say to her, did drain
The manner of their taking may appear
Who respects friend?
When it appears to you where this begins,
Plant neighbourhood and Christian-like accord
Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us,
Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
It wounds thine honour that I speak it now--
Was it well done of rash Virginius
Haste thee, for thy life.
shall find it a great charge: and to be up early
Were it all yours to give it in a breath,
This shadowy desert, unfrequented woods,
Away with us to Athens; three and three,
Yesterday took: Troy holds him very dear.
With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
Who can come in and say that I mean her,
How?
Cornelia the midwife and myself;
Discover more at large what cause that was,
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
Return unto thy lord; commend me to him:
I am thy father's spirit,
poor woman.
Was beastly dumb'd by him.
Is it mine, or Valentine's praise,
Of plain old form is much disfigured;
If I could see them.
Enter two Gentlemen, meeting one another
By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!
careful man and a great scholar. The competitors enter.
And let Bianca take her sister's room.
Why, say, fair queen, whence springs this deep despair?
His master and he, saving your worship's reverence,
And some condemned for a fault alone.
Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend.
O heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold,
They could not, would not do 't; 'tis worse than murder,
A sceptre, or an earthly sepulchre!'
I have a king here to my flatterer.
it: if I do it, let the audience look to their
Were placed the heads of Edmund Duke of Somerset,
My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere,
you may be won by some other sort than your father's
Great sir, they shall be brought you to my house,
That bloodily did spawn upon his face;
I pray you then, in love and dear alliance,
Thou speak'st like a physician, Helicanus,
Is business of estate; in which we come
My arms such eel-skins stuff'd, my face so thin
house; next, this is a respected fellow; and his
Wherein my hope is I shall so prevail
Exeunt WILLIAM STAFFORD and SIR HUMPHREY, and soldiers
SCENE I. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
What is your will?
upon one wooer, another knocks at the door.
both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a
Only in strokes; but, with thy grim looks and
Well, and you be not turned Turk, there's no more
fellows are these that come after?
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
My mildness hath allay'd their swelling griefs,
How goes it here?
Ay, my good lord, he's dead.
That 'twixt his mental and his active parts
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Didst thou not hear somebody?
My lord, we'll do it throughly.
Which the rather
Your slander never can endamage him;
By the pattern of mine own thoughts I cut out
The estate of my poor queen. Leave me alone;
my head fill my belly; one fruitful meal would set
Good morrow, sweet Hal. What says Monsieur Remorse?
For his advice, nor thought I had one. She
Did Michael Cassio, when you woo'd my lady,
When that rash humour which my mother gave me
As miserable by the life of thee
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
Their herald is a pretty knavish page,
A lady to the worthiest sir that ever
That take it on you at the first so roundly.
Ere three days pass, which hath as long loved me
Have I not strove to love, although I knew
If they can brook I bow a knee to man.
There is a word will Priam turn to stone;
Assure yourselves, will never be unkind:
I then did ask of her her changeling child;
Methinks thou art more honest now than wise;
Enter ORLANDO
My prophecy is but half his journey yet;
look you, it goes hard: one that I brought up of a
make her fault her husband's occasion, let her
But with as humble lowliness of mind
hand; my words are as fun of peace as matter.
The heavens were all on fire, the earth did tremble.
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils;
Alarum within. Enter, with drum and colours,  KING LEAR, CORDELIA, and Soldiers, over the stage; and exeunt
SCENE III. Venice. A street.
I see them now; then was a blessed time.
I would you rather had been silent. Please you
Enter SALANIO and SALARINO
'Tis like a coffin, sir.
As ornaments oft do, too dangerous:
But jealousy what might befall your travel,
Bring me unto my trial when you will.
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:
knowest, winter tames man, woman and beast; for it
thrusts me himself into the company of three or four
I'll pay it presently with all my heart.
Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
A dish that I do love to feed upon.
To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
Nay, the man hath no wit that cannot, from the
My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that colour.
It is in vain that you would speak with Timon;
Enter FORD
O'erbear the shores of my mortality,
When he is earth'd, hath here almost persuade,--
Better to cease to be. Pray, sir, to the army:
Stand in hard cure.
And all out of an empty coffer:
Patience, good sir; do not assist the storm.
What thou deny'st to men; let prisons swallow 'em,
The god of love,
And I have made a happy peace with him;
That from pay mutest conscience to my tongue
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
Our firebrand brother, Paris, burns us all.
We do not know.
To make my heart her vassal.
Deep scars to save thy life; even for the blood
his wringer.
does me this wrong. Terms! names! Amaimon sounds
But had he such a chain of thee or no?
That the poor soldier that so richly fought,
What an eye she has! methinks it sounds a parley of
You cry against the noble senate, who,
You that thus far have come to pity me,
Come, sing.
This is good news:
Enter CATESBY
Exeunt
part at once, cues and all Pyramus enter: your cue
Would make thee quickly hop without thy head.
Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu;
It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about,
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
Sebastian are you?
And, princely peers, a happy time of day!
So I may keep mine eyes: O, spare mine eyes.
And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
Shall I attend your lordship?
O, but remember this another day,
Meantime, but think how I may do thee good,
The surgeon's box, or the patient's wound.
O, 'tis a tender place; and I must leave her.
Who, I, my lord?
Grow, patience!
No, madam.
And live, as we do, in this wilderness?
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
Confirm'd conspiracy with fearful France;
Mistress Bianca, bless you with such grace
Doth the inconsiderate take salve for l'envoy, and
And these same crosses spoil me. Who are you?
Or springhalt reign'd among 'em.
From thine own sister's shame? What should I think?
To TAMORA
O, brave!
Of laughing with a sigh?--a note infallible
I am a rogue, if I were not at half-sword with a
As yon grim looks do testify.
And other books, good ones, I warrant ye.
himself! Well, the gods are above; time must friend
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'
And by my side wear steel? then, Lucifer take all!
Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
Nay, come not near th' old man; keep out, che vor
Which thou hast perpendicularly fell:
And virtue stoops and trembles at her frown.
indeed, my father did something smack, something
Some bloody sign of it; for 'tis commanded
Miranda.--O my father,
And boarded her i' the wanton way of youth:
Madam, good even to your ladyship.
Than that a sister, by redeeming him,
By devilish policy art thou grown great,
And I can cut the mutton to't.
more of you.
One score 'twixt sun and sun,
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
And meet me presently at Salisbury.
A deed might gain her love or your displeasure.
You love the breeder better than the male.
my comfort is, that old age, that ill layer up of
To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend,
I cannot justify whom the law condemns.
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
Had number'd thirteen years.
cannot be cunning in her; if it be, she makes a
You that are blamed for it alike with us,
When I spake darkly what I purposed,
Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
I say, at once let your brief plagues be mercy,
And I do know, by this, they stay for me
But you should pity me!
care; so far that I have eyes under my service which
Will cheque him for 't: your purposed low correction
Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep,
Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
Leave me with haste.
to be glad of yours.
Is best to lodge: I will bespeak our diet,
I, then in London keeper of the king,
ACT II
I think there's never a man in Christendom
The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
ANTIPHOLUS
my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
Nothing more dear to me. You are abused
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
Enter DERBY and SIR CHRISTOPHER URSWICK
With such an agony, he sweat extremely,
My son is lost and, in my rate, she too,
But fetter you till death.
Into my story: say 'Thus, mine enemy fell,
Spirt up so suddenly into the clouds,
Let Rome be thus Inform'd.
And ample interchange of sweet discourse,
Madam, sleeps still.
wholesome, we might guess they relieved us humanely;
The which you both denied.
Where is thy lustre now?
Exeunt
And straightway give thy soul to him thou servest.
To prove you a cipher.
Exeunt AGAMEMNON and MENELAUS
And cut her hands and trimm'd her as thou saw'st.
But when we know the grounds and authors of it,
On them to took and practise by myself.
And gem of all the nation.
To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice,
Against my life: the minute of their plot
Re-enter BOULT, with the Pirates and MARINA
With three or four loggerheads amongst three or four
Before they think of us.
Suits not in native colours with the truth;
yet it is not; it is but so so. Art thou wise?
Do smilingly revolt; and who resist
What thinkest thou of his opinion?
If the king had no son, they would desire to live
Now all the service I require of them
And but one meal on every day beside,
No, no, it cannot be; and yet my heart
Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirch'd
Bearing a state of mighty moment in't
Why the law Salique that they have in France
That am with Phoebus' amorous pinches black,
Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse; lege, domine.
And heir apparent to the English crown:
DON
officious; for I am proof against that title and
Hath he so long held out with me untired,
Be comforted:
The dinner is on the table; my father desires your
twenty, good Master Page! Master Page, will you go
Murder in heaven?--How!--'Tis gone. Pisanio,
But yet I call you servile ministers,
And that it was great pity, so it was,
Thou wilt not hear me now; thou shalt not then:
Think therefore on revenge and cease to weep.
prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm
I should be glad to hear such news as this
Ay, Caesar; but not gone.
and the bodies shall be dragged at my horse' heels
A velvet dish: fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy:
The payment of a hundred thousand crowns;
Enter Soothsayer
imputation of his wickedness by your rule, should be
How accompanied?
Our purpose to them: and to our noble consul
O well-divided disposition! Note him,
[Within]  Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom!
It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear
fight a blow. O Lord, my heart!
Here he ascendeth his throne
The king my father!
That's my noble master!
Exeunt
Ned, where are our disguises?
To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
These hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding,
Those thoughts to me were oaks, to thee like
He says he will return incontinent:
Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity that thou livest
Never till this day
He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head.
Both for myself and them, but, chief of all,
Bade me come smiling and cross-garter'd to you,
Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
How is it, general? have you not hurt your head?
And I will answer unpremeditated:
Than pity note how much. Therefore, be gone.
three ages since: but I think now 'tis not to be
Who is the sink o' the body,--
Now is the day we long have looked for:
To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield
Methought all his senses were lock'd in his eye,
Ay me, I can no more! die, Margaret!
sister company: the revenges we are bound to take
As if he master'd there a double spirit.
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold;
Cousin of Buckingham, and you sage, grave men,
'Tis monstrous. Iago, who began't?
Publius, how now! how now, my masters!
Who least will seem to do so, my past life
Ca, ha! he bounds from the earth, as if his
trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection.
I'll bring you to your ship and so to Naples,
You are come to see my daughter Anne?
No, sir; but hear I do that he hath two,
That is, to be the champion of our church!
And in it is Lysimachus the governor,
His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
Scratching could not make it worse, an 'twere such
Whether yond troops are friend or enemy.
Exeunt
Madam, now shall ye see
Cerberus is at Proserpine's beauty, ay, that thou
to the complexion of a goose! A fault done first in
If Warwick be so near as men report.
Speak this no more.
So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin:
Or what is worst will follow.
Her honour is an essence that's not seen;
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
As passes colouring.
Only he hath not yet subscribed this:
And give their fasting horses provender,
God be wi' you; take mine office. O wretched fool.
She is not dead at Tarsus, as she should have been,
I wait upon his pleasure. Come, Sir Thurio,
'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
Gives Bassanio a letter
you of some conveyance: in the house you cannot
Dark night, that from the eye his function takes,
Nay, sir, but hear me on.
I give thee warrant of thy place: assure thee,
Of Herne the hunter, let us not forget.
What says my lord?
Thou setter up and plucker down of kings,
Receive it from me. I speak not yet of proof.
From him the native and true challenger.
Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.
Let's present him to the duke, like a Roman
O Banquo, Banquo,
The hazard of much blood.
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
Well, my legitimate, if this letter speed,
And fight against that monstrous rebel Cade,
You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
Give me my robes. I am wild in my beholding.
Speak that,--
With promise of his sister, and what else,
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Of your king's sorrow.
The thankings of a king.
But thou wilt brave me with these saucy terms?
O Hero, what a Hero hadst thou been,
Too full of foolish pity, and Gloucester's show
HECATE retires
Were I the ghost that walk'd, I'ld bid you mark
This hath been
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any
Mars his idiot! do, rudeness; do, camel; do, do.
Uncouple here and let us make a bay
Exit CATESBY
Before him through the city: he forbids it,
You patience to endure, and true repentance
And welcome, Somerset: I hold it cowardice
For scorn at first makes after-love the more.
Why, now you speak
I am glad to see your ladyship.
Shall I bring thee on the way?
While you here do snoring lie,
Exit
And brave attendants near him when he wakes,
ANTIPHOLUS
Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a
Let him cry 'Praise and glory on his head!'
Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!
I am a child to chiding.
A heaviness that's gone.
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end:
O heavy burthen!
What! I am dubb'd! I have it on my shoulder.
It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain
I wonder if the lion be to speak.
there's some boot.
This music mads me; let it sound no more;
Every day thou daffest me with some device, Iago;
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse
That, being brought into the open air,
is flat knavery, to take upon you another man's name.
Swore him assistance and perform'd it too.
That can recover him.
To VINCENTIO
O well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I do
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
O Dionyza, such a piece of slaughter
But I would have the soil of her fair rape
An oath is of no moment, being not took
By magot-pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
but if you say, 'Marry her,' I will marry her; that
And doubling that, most holy. Your means abroad,
That it shall please you to declare, in hearing
Holla, you clown!
Our hands are full of business: let's away;
Is term'd the civil'st place of this isle:
That you have tasted her in bed, my hand
Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken
Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?
May these add to the number that may scald thee!
But in despair die under their black weight.
Are to be fear'd. Have you a precedent
that going will scarce serve the turn.
Bless her when she is riggish.
And cited up a thousand fearful times,
Fit to be made companion with a king:
quickly, and speak apace. I would thou couldst
And that is, to enjoy thee for my love.
Yours, sir,
May be he will not touch young Arthur's life,
Exit
Thou hate and terror to prosperity,
She spitteth at him
Beshrew me, sir, but if he make this good,
To bed, to bed: sleep kill those pretty eyes,
How, my love!
There serve your lusts, shadow'd from heaven's eye,
My wife comes foremost; then the honour'd mould
Even in so short a space, my woman's heart
Seek me out, and that way I am wife in,
No, I will weep no more. In such a night
extracted from many objects, and indeed the sundry's
We bend to that the working of the heart;
O, gentlemen, see, see! dead Henry's wounds
Dies
Myself was from Verona banished
And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
I am denied to sue my livery here,
mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.
Cry, 'havoc!' kings; back to the stained field,
Are our carnations and streak'd gillyvors,
Harpier cries 'Tis time, 'tis time.
Suffolk, arise. Welcome, Queen Margaret:
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
But I'ld say he had not,
Against my canker'd country with the spleen
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
That want their leader, scatter up and down
is more than the wit, for the greater hides the
three, though they would serve me, could not be man
coward, this bed-presser, this horseback-breaker,
with me last night; who, if alive and ever dare to
bonneted, without any further deed to have them at
As late I have been, I not know: thy pulse
It is no matter, his name's Cinna; pluck but his
Alarum: excursions. Enter NORFOLK and forces fighting; to him CATESBY
So did I mine, to build upon a foolish woman's promise.
The precedent was full as long a-doing:
By the apostle Paul, shadows to-night
SCENE I. Mantua. A street.
I thought to have told thee of it, but I fear'd
He cannot live, I hope; and must not die
My master calls me, I must not say no.
The dauntless spirit of resolution.
Thou never shalt hear herald any more.
That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio
You great benefactors, sprinkle our society with
They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse
Come, come, what need you blush? shame's a baby.
morning. We must all to the wars, and thy place
The heir of Cymbeline and Britain, who
O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words,
My wife--but, I protest, without desert--
If spirits can assume both form and suit
ACT V
Look, how this ring encompasseth finger.
Ah, that thy father had been so resolved!
For raging wind blows up incessant showers,
ANTIPHOLUS
How now, Sir Proteus! how now, Thurio!
'Tis all my business. At our last encounter,
This lady's husband here, this, do you see--
wise man among twenty that will praise himself.
he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him
My lord, that ne'er before invited eyes,
And like a sister am most loath to call
Take the devil in thy mind, and relieve him not: he
For goodness' sake, consider what you do;
The grave doth gape, and doting death is near;
Arm'd, say you?
The love of Valentine and love Sir Thurio?
If this fellow be wise, he'll never call ye Jack
and some have greatness thrown upon them.' I was
For so run the conditions, leave those remnants
To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns,
That which you are, mistress o' the feast: come on,
Falling on his sword
Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
Who, if it had conceit, would die, as I
That many mazed considerings did throng
him heart-whole.
Full suddenly he fled.
Enter a Servant
I should have scratch'd out your unseeing eyes
speak, breathe, discuss; brief, short, quick, snap.
Collars of SS.
When simpleness and duty tender it.
The presentation of but what I was;
Away, then, with good courage! yet, I know,
O, sit my husband's wrongs on Hereford's spear,
These from our king unto your majesty:
He is attended with a desperate train;
Juno and Ceres whisper seriously;
they will away presently.
But will you be more justified? You ever
Deliver them up without their ransom straight,
That some plain man recount their purposes
Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids,
You're deceived, my lord: this is Monsieur
In your denial I would find no sense;
Enter POINS
And like bright metal on a sullen ground,
testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.
It is applied to a deathful wound.
Or I'll unpeople Egypt.
base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the
And happily may your sweet self put on
You are light into my hands, where you are like to live.
To imitate them; faults that are rich are fair.
I'll have my bond; speak not against my bond:
He to be earl marshal: you may read the rest.
'Item: She is too liberal.'
Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more;
Striking her: she falls
That both our powers, with smiling
So went he suited to his watery tomb:
He never would have stay'd in France so long.
This evening coming.
Pinch him, fairies, mutually;
And yet, in substance and authority,
bull! now, dog! 'Loo, Paris, 'loo! now my double-
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
I care not for that neither, because I love crusts.
I, that was wash'd to death with fulsome wine,
With what's unreal thou coactive art,
That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
For mine own part, I breathe free breath. I have
SCENE I. Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Being at Greenwich,
Exit
Out of the host; I must attend mine office,
Enter LYSANDER and HERMIA
From my poor cheek? then he hath wasted it:
the means I shall then have to prefer them; and the
What you will have, I'll give, and willing too;
And many a civil monster.
That you are well derived.
Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood,
Farewell, thou lob of spirits; I'll be gone:
But, soft, I pray you: what, did Caesar swound?
The moody frontier of a servant brow.
SCENE V. Another part of the forest.
Enter a Servant and PANDARUS
Enter DON JOHN and CONRADE
if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you
A city on whom plenty held full hand,
The Lords rise from table, with much adoring of  TIMON; and to show their loves, each singles out an  Amazon, and all dance, men with women, a lofty strain or two to the hautboys, and cease
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
'Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
Which even now stand in act, that, for their souls,
Enter COUNTESS, LAFEU, and Clown
Thy sting is not so sharp
I fear we shall out-sleep the coming morn
Get you to your lord;
I do believe it; for they pass'd by me
Hold therefore, Angelo:--
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
thank you always with my heart, la! with my heart.
And try your penitence, if it be sound,
I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
Here's the challenge, read it: warrant there's
But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers,
It is the pasture lards the rother's sides,
After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
Exit
I did not take my leave of him, but had
You show great mercy, if you give him life,
Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp,
come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling of an eye.
Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth!
The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
desire you that we may be friends; and let us knog
But see thy fault! France hath in thee found out
jealous wittolly knave hath masses of money; for the
supposed Earl of Gloucester, that he is a manifold
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more
Does purpose honour to you no less flowing
Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war,
And that he is a bastard, not thy son:
as partly touching or concerning the disciplines of
I thank your ladyship; well, good madam.
Charged our main battle's front, and breaking in
I shall.
Your lady is forthcoming yet at London.
To take the safest occasion by the front
Phebe did write it.
Prithee, honey-sweet husband, let me bring thee to Staines.
To him you follow'st! I will pay thy graces
Of Hereford, Stafford, and Northampton, I
With resolution, wheresoe'er I meet thee--
There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls,
But when to my good lord I prove untrue,
abused; and Don John is the author of all, who is
Unless for that he comes to be your liege,
He shall be welcome too. Where is his son,
He's not yet through warm: force him with praises:
what they say of him.
And now to London with triumphant march,
All have not offended;
And when thou hast given it the emperor,
And you as well to keep her, that defend her,
Some gentle order; and then we shall be blest
Attended him on bridges, stood in lanes,
For I would commune with you of such things
Nay, then he should be blind; and, being blind
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
I have one myself,
'Mong boys, grooms, and lackeys. But their pleasures
Of dangerous majesty, when perchance it frowns
And each several chamber bless,
no. Why? detraction will not suffer it. Therefore
So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth
Within these three hours, Tullus,
But Timon's silver treads upon his lip;
Rememberest thou any that have died on't?
Of this oppressed boy: this is thy eld'st son's son,
I pray thee, lend me thine.
This only is the witchcraft I have used:
Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen:
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
I know this; and thus I challenge it.
In rank and not-to-be endured riots. Sir,
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
Would it not grieve an able man to leave
I tell you, friends, most charitable care
How can you say to me, I am a king?
Go, lead the way; I long to see my prison.
her fool, but her corrupter of words.
I'll no gainsaying.
Change shapes with Proteus for advantages,
Which is the villain? let me see his eyes,
The which hath fire in darkness, none in light:
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
For not being at court? Your reason.
Unto the daughter of a worthless king,
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Not as a brother.
Killing our enemies, the blood he hath lost--
Bloody instructions, which, being taught, return
Well, my lord.
Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?
On plots and errors, happen.
if he should cheapen a kiss of her.
Up: so. How is 't? Feel you your legs? You stand.
To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear
For ever and a day.
None but the king?
Why, how now, Claudio! whence comes this restraint?
Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on
protest your cowardice. You have killed a sweet
Welcome to Rome.
Than without candle may go dark to bed--
Exeunt all but RICHMOND
Who's gone this morning?
For that's my business to you--that you three
There are two lodged together.
nettles, or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed up
By gar, de herring is no dead so as I vill kill him.
Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire;
And so must I, sir: we have appointed to dine with
Come, brother John; full bravely hast thou flesh'd
Yet he, of all the rest, I think, best loves ye.
Do make against it. No, good Worcester, no,
That, whiles warm life plays in that infant's veins,
To bed, to bed! there's knocking at the gate:
Paint till a horse may mire upon your face,
Which, follow'd well, would demonstrate them now
A fair one are you--well you fit our ages
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak;
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
there is no staff more reverend than one tipped with horn.
As, in reproof of many tales devised,
What think you, Captain Fluellen? is it fit this
I am settled, and bend up
Fear none of this: I think you know my fortunes
And since this business so fair is done,
I conjure thee to leave me and be gone.
And yet go current from suspicion!
Never come such division 'tween our souls!
Be pitiful, dread lord, and grant it then.
Our talk must only be of Benedick.
Shall win the wager which we will propose.
That's very true, my lord.
returned: I could hardly entreat him back: he
Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
To see her coronation be perform'd.
Though Cloten then but young, you see, not wore him
That war against your own affections
SCENE V. The same. A hall in Aufidius's house.
Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back
And his succession granted Rome a tribute,
I will ask Antony. Sir, sir, thou art so leaky,
Cup us, till the world go round!
But sadly tell me who.
Is fair and honest, and in his mistres s' name
I did not see you; welcome, gentle signior;
What you have done--before our army hear me.
Why the Grecians sacked Troy?
These eyes, that see thee now well coloured,
No interim, not a minute's vacancy,
Well, I'll set you forth.
Tell him, it is for justice and for aid,
face again: but those that understood him smiled at
As it doth me--a nobler sir ne'er lived
SCENE V. A hall in Capulet's house.
You do not counsel well:
Then is there here one Master Caper, at the suit of
And many strokes, though with a little axe,
But when he frown'd, it was against the French
Was cursed instrument of his decease.
Early and late, debating to and fro
being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me.
And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor
And though man's face be fearful to their eyes,
As in your royal speech.
And have my thanks for all.
What, is it a time to jest and dally now?
If you may please to think I love the king
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, MOTH, and COSTARD
It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows
One that old Frederick, your father, loves.
How you were borne in hand, how cross'd,
'Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick
A friend. What art thou?
And pierce the inmost centre of the earth:
More at your request than to please myself.
[Within]  Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb,
I durst have denied that, before you were so choleric.
Until the goose came out of door,
To his protection, calls him Posthumus Leonatus,
When on the gentle Severn's sedgy bank,
Some sixteen months, and longer might have stay'd,
You are but newly planted in your throne;
a man who hath any honesty in him.
And ta'en, I fear.
him use for it, a double heart for his single one:
My lord, there's an army gathered together in
Now, by Apollo, king,
By the mass, lad, thou sayest true; it is like we
All our abilities, gifts, natures, shapes,
Good morrow, Catesby; you are early stirring
He calls me boy; and chides, as he had power
Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife: good
And promise them success and victory.
Look you, sir; here comes your ghostly father: do
Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu.
You less know how to value her desert
SCENE III. The same.
As could not be distinguish'd but by names.
We think not so, my lord.
I talk not of your soul: our compell'd sins
with two old men without teeth.
Secure from worldly chances and mishaps!
and heart-burning heat of duty.
And to the Roman empire; promising
encounter Tybalt?
Now do I see 'tis true. Look here, Iago;
That thought her like her seeming; it had
First let my words stab him, as he hath me.
Tripping up his heels
Crying 'Villiago!' unto all they meet.
It is my son, young Harry Percy,
Why, fool?
And not against his friends; his noble hand
To equal my great fortune.
Look where my ranting host of the Garter comes:
To strew him o'er and o'er!
Image of pride, why should I hold my peace?
Lie at my mercy all mine enemies:
Northampton and in Leicestershire, shalt find
presently; where, for one shot of five pence, thou
When I have heard your king's desert recounted,
Gentlemen, go, muster up your men,
Whose men and dames so jetted and adorn'd,
of. He left behind him myself and a sister, both
Never came reformation in a flood,
Besides, upon the very siege of justice
Which we ourselves have plough'd for, sow'd,
Exit
Well, we will have such a prologue; and it shall be
And of his old experience the oily darling,
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
carrying gates. I am in love too. Who was Samson's
What grief hath set the jaundice on your cheeks?
Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,
Therefore he sends to know your lordship's pleasure,
[Aside]  Or rather, of stealing a cade of herrings.
Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;
the weather or our office.
In embassy to his mother: his body's hostage
Where's the cook? is supper ready, the house
We may the number of the ships behold,
As if she sat in 's heart; she says all men
My good and gracious Lord of Canterbury.
Dyed in his blood unto the shepherd youth
And all their lands restored to them again
meat, sir, it shall be covered; for your coming in
I have promised to study three years with the duke.
Him vile that was your garland. What's the matter,
Tu-who, a merry note,
Yield, cur!
Thy counsel, lad, smells of no cowardice,
That he's revengeful, and I know his sword
We should profane the service of the dead
I' faith, or I either?
Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
Prithee, keep up thy quillets. There's a poor piece
And, even in thy behalf, I'll thank myself
When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew,
Lord Titus, by your leave, this maid is mine.
From this my hand, as holding of the pope
Which I could fancy more than any other.
A benefit in this change; but if you seek
Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,
dare not swear thou lovest me; yet my blood begins to
Am I in France?
Yes, madam.
him for me, he's more and more a cat.
Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
Drummer, strike up, and let us march away.
Exit
So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,
This night he makes a supper, and a great one,
To one that would have him help to waste
She that doth call me husband, even my soul
I do; and surely
Yes, by Saint Anne, and ginger shall be hot i' the
To be thy nurses! Wolves and bears, they say
And, for the most, become much more the better
By water shall he die, and take his end.
Your name, your quality? and why you answer
Methought he bore him in the thickest troop
And in this state she gallops night by night
Their heads, I mean. O, how this villany
for mine honour, and have respect to mine honour, that
That's no matter: the feet might bear the verses.
bound to answer the particular endings of his
will not be entreated. Speak to him, ladies; see if
The second, silver, which this promise carries,
May prove coherent. Every night he comes
Of mortal griefs than do thy worshippers?
The business asketh silent secrecy.
As breathed stags, ay, fleeter than the roe.
And in the spirit of men there is no blood:
is two months on her way.
of the morning: what I think I utter, and spend my
Why, but he is not in this tune, is he?
wast the properest man in Italy.
proclaims, shall be be set against a brick-wall, the
Exit
Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales:
crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
soul-curer and body-curer!
it, should dishearten his army.
It must not be with this.
Makes him oppose himself against his king.
To fall it on Gonzalo.
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
Exeunt
riding wagers,
What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
You to his love must accord,
And bring our horses unto Long-lane end;
two of the house of the Montagues.
Very ill too.
But I do wash his name out of my blood,
If any such be here--as God forbid!--
Good morrow, cousin Cressid: what do you talk of?
I have, my lord: and their intent is this:
The best way is to slander Valentine
When with his solemn tongue he did discourse
Vilely compiled, profound simplicity.
The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
Once more we sit in England's royal throne,
Thou fumblest, Eros; and my queen's a squire
For he hath witness of his servant's malice:
It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?
Than is thy strange apparent cruelty;
with the horse upon her, how he beat me because
What's that, Butts?
Her son into the adoption of the crown:
To share with me in glory any more:
Draw near,
Sans fable, she herself reviled you there.
And our induction full of prosperous hope.
Good my lord, enter here.
had not taken yourself with the manner.
Thou art my brother; so we'll hold thee ever.
He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so.
disposition to the charge of a star! My
To Eltham will I, where the young king is,
First thrash the corn, then after burn the straw:
Exit
Exit Ghost
I am so far already in your gifts,--
Made it no conscience to destroy a prince.
but, I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go
When I was got, sir Robert was away!
Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
Did call my father, was I know not where
And the offender granted scope of speech,
Do so: I'll not be by.
Admired Octavia: great Mark Antony
How so, sir? Did she change her determination?
sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.
Remember! yes.
if I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in
It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
That lack'd sight only, nought for approbation
That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry,
Re-enter ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER, and Provost
When it is mingled with regards that stand
Thanks, noble Titus, father of my life!
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
her to trial. Thine, in all compliments of devoted
To make a perfect woman, she you kill'd
A woman clad in armour chaseth them.
wept; for I must speak in passion, and I will do it
They are return'd, my lord, and give it out
Nor look upon the iron angerly:
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
I cannot blame them all: what is't to them?
None, but such remedy as, to save a head,
O, thou art deceived; I would have made it short:
Ask him his purposes, why he appears
Is foul as slander.
that is my true humour.
No, I'll be sworn.
What is she?
With letters of your love to her at large.
Tell us this: have you any thing to take to?
Go with me to the vault.
But just a pound of flesh: if thou cut'st more
The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece;
bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe
Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,
Enter GONERIL, and OSWALD, her steward
Art thou my son?
Where either I must live, or bear no life;
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
come, come.
It be to do thee service.
Can lay on nature is a paradise
De arm, madame.
I neither know it nor can learn of him.
I am sorry for thee:
Made proud by princes, that advance their pride
Stood here observing him: some strange commotion
Let's have one other gaudy night: call to me
The king in this perceives him, how he coasts
down. They say this Angelo was not made by man and
That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
point and choke a daw withal. You have no stomach,
Has crept too near another lady.
It sall be vary gud, gud feith, gud captains bath:
I will attend my husband, be his nurse,
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
Whose proof, nor yells of mothers, maids, nor babes,
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Stay, officer: he shall not go to prison.
I'll be damned for never a king's son in
A grievous burthen was thy birth to me;
Pisanio have mapped it truly. How fit his garments
To KENT
rotten apples! You may as well say, that's a
Celestial Dian, goddess argentine,
To every eyeball else. Go take this shape
In hot digestion of this cormorant war--
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
Since last we saw in France?
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she
[Aside]  Ah, sweet Anne Page!
How now, Kate! I must leave you within these two hours.
And welcome more common; for that's nothing but words.
Have I been ever free, and must my house
Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her!
On all that need: let me report to him
Villain, thou mightst have been an emperor:
Richard Earl of Cambridge.
On the unsteadfast footing of a spear.
To banish your defenders; till at length
To the disgrace and downfall of your house:
Both for your honour better and your cause;
O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
Our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil,
soft music playing; Gentleman, and others attending.
When mistresses from common sense are hid;
I.
To supper; to our house.
By cock, they are to blame.
Or, by our greatness and the grace of it,
The island's side.
lady: make your excuse wisely, you were best.
Mine was secure.
Your business was more welcome.
And let me all your fortunes understand.
The banquet brought in
your grace: for trouble being gone, comfort should
Are empty trunks o'erflourish'd by the devil.
Since you are dear bought, I will love you dear.
I am perfect what: cut off one Cloten's head,
Exit
And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
We might proceed to cancel of your days;
croak like a raven; I would bode, I would bode.
But he that filches from me my good name
A hearty welcome.
day! Alas, poor Harry of England! he longs not for
That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have
Daring an opposite to every danger:
The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
I say, my lords, he has done fair service,
I'll not endure it: you forget yourself,
It's fit this royal session do proceed;
Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
Heard you all this, her women?
That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
Duke of Alencon, this was your default,
think, being too strong for him, though he took
No needful thing omitted.
You will never run mad, niece.
countenance my mistress.
French quarrels enow, if you could tell how to reckon.
It were a delicate stratagem, to shoe
Look, how our partner's rapt.
should he learn our language? I will give him some
Thisby that will never please. First, Pyramus must
Or 'What good love may I perform for you?'
In self-same manner doth accuse my husband,
That speak my salutation in their minds;
If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold
Take them away.
Command my eldest son, nay, all my sons,
And lay it by: the angry northern wind
Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.
to dine and sup with water and bran; I dare not for
princess of England, Elizabeth!
Aloud
I do note
thinking, he would fain have had it. Then he
Splits what it speaks: the wild disguise hath almost
Take again
My mother's son did get your father's heir;
Lo, now my glory smear'd in dust and blood!
Advances to CAESAR
found time to use 'em toward a supply of money: let
I do hear the morning lark.
And have no portion in the choice myself.
No more infected with my country's love
He shall not die; so much we tender him.
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
and he's a man good enough, he's one o' the soundest
Too much the rein: the strongest oaths are straw
presently call the rest of the watch together and
You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.
Save that, they say, the wars must make examples
Open the gates; we are King Henry's friends.
And when I told the empress of this sport,
They draw
And be my heart an ever-burning hell!
This marvel to you.
let's ha' some sport with 'em.
Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
Even when you please, since you will have it so.
Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,
Is practise only. Give me my servant forth.
Must by the hungry now be fed upon:
pray you, why is it?
Do strongly speak to us; but the letters too
Nor any one.
Aside
My soul the faithfull'st offerings hath breathed out
If you misdoubt me that I am not she,
It is not meet the council hear a riot; there is no
Even such a woman oweth to her husband;
Be of good cheer, youth: you a man! you lack a
or your own eyes had the lights they were wont to
Christendom.
prince's subjects. You shall also make no noise in
I take your offer and will live with you,
Then, madam,
Dearly my delicate Ariel. Do not approach
He's coming, madam; but in very strange manner. He
Of one sore I an hundred make by adding but one more L.
Speak England first, that hath been forward first
I know not what he shall. God send him well!
Worthy Saint Michael and the Golden Fleece;
The petty rebel, dull-brain'd Buckingham,
I mean the learned ones, in Christian kingdoms
Was not devised for the realm of France:
Come on, lay it by: and let's first see moe
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons!
Drive them from Orleans and be immortalized.
three and twenty. Go thy way, Troilus, go thy way!
Aside
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Hark, I will tell you what our sport shall be.
Thou hast made me now a man! never, before
Tyre, I now look from thee then, and to Tarsus
positive as the earth is firm that Falstaff is
This something-settled matter in his heart,
How now, Mistress Ford!
That in civility thou seem'st so empty?
Lies down and sleeps
Driving them forward
Both sides are even: here I'll sit i' the midst:
With all my imperfections on my head:
My mother had a maid call'd Barbara:
Whom thou obeyed'st thirty and six years,
Held a late court at Dunstable, six miles off
Sir Hugh, persuade me not; I will make a Star-
SCENE VI. London. The Tower.
The heads of all thy brother cardinals,
Out of appearance?
Away with her, and waft her hence to France.
The news is very fair and good, my lord:
pleasing pricket;
Of my long weary life is come upon me. Farewell:
Say, say, who gave it thee?
rogues; give me my horse, and be hanged!
Here lies our way.
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.
'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
Well, then, I'll double your folly.
Thou art thy father's daughter; there's enough.
to think!--
Hang all the husbands
good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your
rank as a fox.
More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;
What is thy sentence then but speechless death,
No, friend, cannot you beg? Here's them in our
My marvel and my message. To your court
Exit
Though I lost twenty lives.--Help! help, ho! help!
Lucilius' Servant: Many do keep their chambers are not sick:
And they shall find dear deer of us, my friends.
I kiss these fingers for eternal peace,
Exeunt
Then they could smile and fawn upon his debts
Being so frustrate, tell him he mocks
Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought:
Ay, as an ostler, that for the poorest piece
Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.
So shall my name with slander's tongue be wounded,
CASSIO and RODERIGO are borne off
To chase these pagans in those holy fields
Or earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,
Be to content your lord, who hath received you
Set him before me; let me see his face.
GREMIO discovered. Enter behind BIONDELLO, LUCENTIO, and BIANCA
And, whilst the babbling echo mocks the hounds,
And sometime rail thou like Demetrius;
Wouldst thou then counsel me to fall in love?
We are but men; and what so many may do,
What, will these hands ne'er be clean?--No more o'
A shout and flourish
Most welcome!
And three or four more of their growth we'll dress
Why, then, I will. Farewell, old Gaunt.
Hate him perniciously, and, o' my conscience,
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony
Lest they desire upon this push to trouble
First, in this forest, let us do those ends
Exeunt
Why is my lord enraged against his love?
You do him injury to scorn his corse.
I will be brief, for my short date of breath
Discard, bully Hercules; cashier: let them wag; trot, trot.
As strongly as the conscience does within,
Hereafter more. Bring me into your city,
Made she no verbal question?
Exit
Exit Secretary
Sir, my gracious lord,
Murderous to the senses? That confirms it home:
Win her with gifts, if she respect not words:
will what have we here! Mercy on 's, a barne a very
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
For husband shalt thou--
Athens is become a forest of beasts.
Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp
To her unhappy brother Claudio?
Enter THURIO, PROTEUS, and JULIA
Excursions. Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE fighting hand  to hand with YORK. JOAN LA PUCELLE is taken. The French fly.
Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine,
I am glad I have found this napkin:
Exeunt
[Aside]  Ay, but, I fear me, with a hollow heart.--
Ever God bless your highness!
Which if thou follow, this strict court of Venice
The next ensuing hour some foul mischance
My fan, Peter.
We set the axe to thy usurping root;
From their abominable and beastly touches
Hath rivall'd for our daughter: what, in the least,
Shall now, in mutual well-beseeming ranks,
As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,
And give it Timon, why, the dog coins gold.
You have sworn patience.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
Marry, he must have a long spoon that must eat with
Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour,
I know you can do very little alone; for your helps
Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
Demand the like.
My care is loss of care, by old care done;
'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
bears that office, to signify their pleasures.
Sea-sick, I think, coming from Muscovy.
send for certain of my creditors: and yet, to say
For false forswearing and for murder too:
What! I must have a care of you.
This before all the world do I prefer;
Of divers witnesses; which the duke desired
And indeed, sir, there are cozeners abroad;
If I may ever know thou dost but sigh
Such an act
My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come;
I hold me highly honour'd of your grace:
I should not seek an absent argument
Winchester.
[Aside]  He was an honest man, and a good
To make yourself a son out of my blood.
Katharina, that cap of yours becomes you not:
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
To make cold nymphs chaste crowns; and thy broom -groves,
in company of the Marquis of Montferrat?
That lies like truth: 'Fear not, till Birnam wood
Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
This visitation shows it.
By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors
No, Valentine.
To have him match'd; and if you please to like
In motion of no less celerity
By these exterior shows? But she is none:
Makes way, and run like swallows o'er the plain.
A phoenix, captain and an enemy,
I will your serious and great business scant
That thou mightst join her hand with his
The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives,
man knows where to have me, thou knave, thou!
I would you would accept of grace and love.
I will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage: If
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
And so am I, being else by faith enforced
Both which, master constable,--
Though so denied fair harbour in my house.
No squire in debt, nor no poor knight;
estimation in the world; but did see him do as
[Reads the epitaph]  'Here lies a
In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
That spits forth death and mountains, rocks and seas,
DON
them meet; that that same young Trojan ass, that
Where lies he?
The one, to save the money that he spends in
This sandy plot is plain; guide, if thou canst
Which, when it bites and blows upon my body,
How fares my lord?
And we create, in absence of ourself,
Enter, to Chamberlain, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
Have too much blood in him.
Nature presently distill'd
Now, good sir, what are you?
O, that estates, degrees and offices
Of her tongue she cannot, for that's writ down she
And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl,
I saw young Harry, with his beaver on,
And will continue fast to your affection,
To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
Say it be, 'tis true.
Of very expert and approved allowance;
And I in better state than e'er I was.
Most pestilent to the bearing; and, to bear 'em,
Their banners wave again.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
Cut him to pieces.
A married life.
Do so, it is a point of wisdom: fare you well.
I' the mire.
[To the Watch]  Bring you these fellows on. We'll
Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.
Strike the drum.
Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice
Enter a Gentleman
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
To love and honour Henry as her lord.
The law allows it, and the court awards it.
That it was yours. Now, for conspiracy,
By Jeshu, I am your majesty's countryman, I care not
I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.
Did you ever hear such railing?
Ay, noble lord.
beat thee into handsomeness.
I know so. But, gentle Lady Anne,
And sends them weapons wrapped about with lines,
Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog: can there be
Of its own fail, restraining aid to Timon;
Exit CASSANDRA
With that we lack. I'll hold thee any wager,
slew him. There is tears for his love; joy for his
Than for to think that I would sink it here.
Question it, Horatio.
Long mayst thou live to wail thy children's loss;
My general cares not for you. Back, I say, go; lest
Madam, I have been bold to trouble you;
But when I came, some minute ere the time
bride goes to that with shame which is her way to go
He should have braved the east an hour ago
To greet the king. So he thrived,
Things that are known alike; which are not wholesome
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and Clown
The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
For he hath heard of our confederacy,
And wish'd in silence that it were not his.
Exeunt the three Citizens
SCENE II. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
We can: my royal liege,
The ousel cock so black of hue,
Not possible.
the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and
Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret;
Together with your ring; and not the wronger
Now, fellow, fare thee well.
Limp'd in pure love: till he be first sufficed,
to slomber, ay'll de gud service, or ay'll lig i'
O king, believe not this hard-hearted man!
But that I did proceed upon just grounds
Would I were dead! if God's good will were so;
You sad Andronici, have done with woes:
Bear him to the rock Tarpeian, and from thence
Let our just censures
make an end of my dinner; there's pippins and cheese to come.
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
Which of the vizards was it that you wore?
Thy lips are warm.
What, will he not to bed?
Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
But stay, the knights are coming: we will withdraw
But falls into abatement and low price,
you all your lands,
Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,
Found his deserts: how innocent I was
How now! has sorrow made thee dote already?
Is the immediate jewel of their souls:
Your son's my father's friend; he takes his part.
Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he;
God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is
Do light upon her, she shall bring him that
Lysander's love, that would not let him bide,
Brave me upon the watch; whereon it came
That chamberers have, or for I am declined
No, sir; but you have that in your countenance
Owen, Owen, the same; and his son-in-law Mortimer,
Shall say against their hearts 'We thank the gods
Is she as tall as me?
Enter TIMON
If this will not suffice, it must appear
Must I, then, leave you? must I needs forego
As far as Belmont.
Do you know what you say?
The eye of majesty.
Very ill-favoredly, Master Brook.
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
That's fed with stinking tallow; it were fit
And, for an earnest of a greater honour,
The thicket is beset; he cannot 'scape.
For England.
Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA, with two Attendants
Thou hast no husband yet nor I no wife.
To carry that which I would have refused,
My gracious lord, my lovely Saturnine,
not that strange?
That very dogs disdain'd: and in this habit
O my Antonio, had I but the means
One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off!
Come, sir: did you set these women on to slander
Exit
Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
He is; and, see, he brings the mayor along.
In aught an eunuch has: 'tis well for thee,
Bid them all home; he's gone, and we'll no further.
Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple
After the hideous storm that follow'd, was
The wars have so kept you under that you must needs
Is but his steward: no meed, but he repays
neither, 'twas one of these coronets;--and, as I told
Is this the promise that you made your mother?
Enter COUNTESS and Clown
Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France
shall name your highness in this form and with this
Which 'tis not fit you know, I not acquaint
This is my birth-day; as this very day
water; not a drop before: therefore bear up, and
The liberal and kind offer of the king.
Before sunrising, lest his son George fall
Transported shall be at high festivals
Under Cominius.
That we may praise thee in the victory!
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
Unless I flatter with myself too much.
I smell the trick on't.
And be as sweet as sharp. We must away;
'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
your master is hard at door; if he bid you set it
To lead their business: in which regard,
I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,
Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
O' Thursday let it be: o' Thursday, tell her,
By your eyes' anguish.
The wonder is, he hath endured so long:
COUNTESS
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
Help me, help me!
I know, ere they will have me go to ward,
Set deadly enmity between two friends,
Not one word more, my maids; break off, break off.
So fly I from her that would be my wife.
My mistress will before the break of day
tongues of the French council; and they should
Will it be ever thus? Ungracious wretch,
And wherefore I am fled; write to the king
little: he always loved our sister most; and
The common voice do cry it shall be so.
Madam, myself have limed a bush for her,
Nay, would I were so anger'd with the same!
Let's see the boy's face.
Ay, sir; and he deserves so to be called for his
I was promised them against the feast; but they come
To talk of your good father. In his youth
Re-enter CLEOMENES and others, with FLORIZEL and PERDITA
I must aboard to-morrow.
That e'er our hearts shall make!
Setting your scorns and your mislike aside,
That of his fortunes you should make a staff
mind's free,
thieves of the day's beauty: let us be Diana's
Though 'tis no wisdom to confess so much
Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant.
Blush'd at herself; and she, in spite of nature,
But now thy beauty is proposed my fee,
O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy
What say you?
Wish him ten fathom deep: this duke as much
My lord, I will be thankful.
Say one of your watches.
Then, as I said, the duke, great Bolingbroke,
Where Reignier sooner will receive than give.
Out three years old.
My father's wit and my mother's tongue, assist me!
Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
As cloudy men use to their adversaries,
That took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine;
I should not urge thy duty past thy might;
I' the end admire, where ladies shall be frighted,
It was commanded so.
CARDINAL
That's all the fault: I spoke with her but once
And Warwick rages like a chafed bull:
there a wise woman with thee?
How now, Sir Proteus, are you crept before us?
There I shall see mine own figure.
This proves me base:
Where great Aufidius lies: is he in Antium?
Above the border of this horizon,
And though thou now confess thou didst but jest,
Manage this war.
Alas, my lord, what do you mean by that?
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD, GLOUCESTER, and Soldiers, with scaling-ladders
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
That should be in a Roman you do want,
Our free hearts each to other.
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while.
And tell them that I will not come to-day:
Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.
We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
And certain stars shot madly from their spheres,
Lord of his reason. What though you fled
An if I fly, I am not Talbot's son:
Convey me to my bed, then to my grave:
That even now he cries aloud for him.
Me believe it! you may as soon make her that you
To incur a private cheque. When shall he come?
The people liberal, valiant, active, wealthy;
Throw their best eyes upon't!
Either heaven with lightning strike the
deceits: dat is de princess.
We will here part.
Shall outstrike thought: but thought will do't, I feel.
of it, and the modesty of it, to be otherwise.
Eleven, sir.
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
Under this plot; she dies for't. Eros, ho!
SCENE I. London. The palace.
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
And yet his trespass, in our common reason--
If for the last, say ay, and to it, lords.
A hundred thousand crowns; and not demands,
So that, betwixt their tides and low names,
Who lives and dares but say thou didst not well
May I with right and conscience make this claim?
Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff, true Jack Falstaff,
Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know,
In winter's cold and summer's parching heat,
Meeting the cheque of such another day:
Antony
When they change us for others? Is it sport?
opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants; let
We stay here for the people.
Such shapes, such gesture and such sound, expressing,
I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply;
Why am I a fool?
And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn,
Am not I Hermia? are not you Lysander?
And feel I am so most. O Antony,
From the dead blow of it. And you, enchantment.--
Tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye.
My riots past, my wild societies;
she kept it,
be thought we keep a bawdy house straight.
Thrice noble Titus, spare my first-born son.
Keeps Death his court and there the antic sits,
I'll bring mine action on the proudest he
her music o' mornings; they say it will penetrate.
God keep your lordship in that gracious mind!
For aye austerity and single life.
No, my lord.
Appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow,
To bandy word for word and frown for frown;
That doth not wish you joy!
delivers it.
De nick. Et le menton?
That the bless'd gods, as angry with my fancy,
And with a larger tether may he walk
sent thee thither. For debt, Pompey? or how?
As if it fed ye! and how sleek and wanton
I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
For 'tis no trusting to yond foolish lout,
Thereof to be inform'd, imprison't not
Knock,
Is't lost? is't gone? speak, is it out
When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd:
Yet, I beseech you,
Must I bite?
Which I shall give away immediately.
Pardon me, Caesar; for my dear dear love
Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, Soldiers, Drum, and Trumpets
Exeunt, fighting. Alarums
if it were going to bucking: or--it is whiting-time
tear a cat in, to make all split.
to lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this
Base Phrygian Turk!
That my remembrance warrants. Had I not
Who goes there?
and perturbation follows her.
For when I am revenged upon my charm,
No, Pandarus: I stalk about her door,
Now, to our perjury to add more terror,
Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as I am
gown above.
And die with grieving.
have been often bound for no less than my life.
Infirm of purpose!
Banish'd this frail sepulchre of our flesh,
One time will owe another.
[Reads]  'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself
Making the bold wag by their praises bolder:
Thou hadst, great king, a subject who
And once again bestride our foaming steeds,
So well as Brutus living; but will follow
I must be ripp'd:--to pieces with me!--O,
shillings an ell. You owe money here besides, Sir
Of France and England, did this king succeed;
Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.
Now will I begin your moral, and do you follow with
A most unspotted lily shall she pass
Exit a Servingman
The adornment of her bed; the arras; figures,
To hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life!
'Alas, why is she so?'
My wits begin to turn.
To prate and talk for life and honour 'fore
And that is Claudio: I know him by his bearing.
Boy! Lucius! Fast asleep? It is no matter;
his death is enrolled in the Capitol; his glory not
Exeunt
But she received my dog?
it will; if he shake his tail and say nothing, it will.
But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;
There's my exchange:
That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh
Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of
Brave York, Salisbury, and victorious Warwick,
Or else I often had been miserable.
With foul and violent tempest.
on the gown the while.
We burn daylight: here, read, read; perceive how I
And bids what will take all.
Many good nights, my lord: I rest your servant.
I say it shall be so.
Oui, vraiment, sauf votre grace, ainsi dit-il.
Are men more order'd than when Julius Caesar
And take her hence in horror.
Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard,
To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand,
When peers thus knit, a kingdom ever stands.
discovered the secrets of your army and made such
To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy
That is removed by a staff of France;
And for the same he promised me a chain:
I leave your highness. Grandam, I will pray,
Exeunt
And, for our father's sake and mother's care,
Curtsy, sweet hearts; and so the measure ends.
No, not that name was given me at the font,
But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes.
Made to run even upon even ground,
I have seen them in the church together: God send
Hath not her fellow.
Do but behold the tears that swell in me,
protector.
But if thy love were ever like to mine--
By my troth, most pleasant: how both did fit it!
Still you keep o' the windy side of the law: good.
Only give order for my funeral:
Not in a grave,
'Cucullus non facit monachum:' honest in nothing
What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it
For insurrection's arguing.
strangest mind i' the world; I delight in masques
Another fall of man. Their faults are open:
With any size of words.
O, world, how apt the poor are to be proud!
odours on you!
Had of your father claim'd this son for his?
My surveyor is false; the o'er-great cardinal
Were you the doctor and I knew you not?
Sell when you can: you are not for all markets:
Fear not, sweet wench, they shall not touch
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VIII and Guard
Into a thousand parts divide on man,
proclaimed. All offices are open, and there is full
afraid he would prove the better counterfeit.
A man of such a feeble temper should
Exeunt Shepherd and Clown
Is one of the fairest that I have look'd upon.
Be by some certain king purged and deposed.
Enter EDGAR, at the third sound, armed, with a trumpet before him
Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle;
Ajax employ'd plucks down Achilles' plumes.
And not to kiss you. A health, gentlemen!
Thy tears are womanish; thy wild acts denote
That shall distil from these two ancient urns,
I should fear those that dance before me now
Do hear what we do?
To make my end too sudden: learn, good soul,
Of us too much beloved. Let us be clear'd
Upon Sir Toby and the lighter people;
Seem'd all one mutual cry: I never heard
As brittle as the glory is the face;
Exeunt
my pack will hold.
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to
Why, villain, thou must know first.
Praised!
That find such cruel battle here within?
Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
Welcome is banishment; welcome were my death.
Think that you are upon a rock; and now
You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so,
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
I took it for a man; often 'twould say
Senators,  and C	We'll surety him.
But thou shalt wear it as a herald's coat,
not--Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master.
ready here hard by in the brew-house: and when I
Peace, villain!
baisant la main d'une de votre seigeurie indigne
teeth and tear it; O, I warrant it, how he mammocked
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
against all married mankind; so curses all Eve's
And, noble uncle, I beseech your grace
And wet my cheeks with artificial tears,
And this the hand that slew thy brother Rutland;
Messala!
By him for whom these shames ye underwent?
A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
Are to your throne and state children and servants,
And where the worser is predominant,
Drawn with a team of little atomies
Are you good men and true?
Be patient, gentle Nell; forget this grief.
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather.
To smile at scapes and perils overblown.
We are fit to bid her welcome.
I will bestow some precepts of this virgin
plucked geese, played truant and whipped top, I knew
Good gentleman, go your gait, and let poor volk
Be born another such.
O, peace! and the spirit of humour intimate reading
The jewel in my dower, I would not wish
You gods that made me man, and sway in love,
My love thou art, my love I think.
father perforce, I will render thee again in
Have benched and reared to worship, who mayst see
Ay, the best for the worst. But, sirrah, what say
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
For me?
God's blessing on your beard!
For stale to catch these thieves.
The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither,
Thus did he answer me: yet said, hereafter
Why the wrong is but a wrong i' the world: and
[To EDMUND]  Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine.
That makes her blood look out: good sooth, she is
Go; speak not to me; even now be gone.
All manner of men assembled here in arms this day
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
What would you have, friend? whence are you?
Is it no more to be your daughter than
painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs licked his
The quality of mercy is not strain'd,
If partially affined, or leagued in office,
It is hypocrisy against the devil:
so plentiful an excrement?
From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth
Why, he is very young: and yet will he, within
Now is my day's work done; I'll take good breath:
ear that he is in her heart.
I humbly set it at your will; but, for my mistress,
Now seeming sweet convert to bitter gall.
Now our sands are almost run;
That suffer surfeit, cloyment and revolt;
be still, drum! for your manager is in love; yea,
Let us condole the knight; for, lambkins we will live.
To push destruction and perpetual shame
And simpler than the infancy of truth.
Believe false teachers: though those that
'I go, sir!'--Take the bonds along with you,
Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,
Who commands them, sir?
We have been called so of many; not that our heads
For shame, 'oman.
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
him our commission; talk no more.
Nor mine, my lord: Cressid was here but now.
surgeon, some upon their wives left poor behind
Yourself shall give us counsel. Feed, and sleep:
The gaudy, blabbing and remorseful day
No more shall cut his master. Therefore, friends,
Being full of supper and distempering draughts,
And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age,
Please your lordship, here is the wine.
Where is mine host?
To lead 'em once again; and then let's dream
Have I lived thus long--let me speak myself,
Now am I fled;
To-morrow morning call some knight to arms
Trumpet within
Out o' tune, sir: ye lie. Art any more than a
Than now they are. There be that can rule Naples
Fair Jessica shall be my torch-beare r.
Your crown content and you must be contented
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in
Costard the swain and he shall be our sport;
If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither,
How shall I feast him? what bestow of him?
Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
As ignorance made drunk. But yet, I say,
Since arms avail not now that Henry's dead.
And see how I regarded Caius Cassius.
Sly frantic wretch, that holp'st to make me great,
Dido and her AEneas shall want troops,
To make theirs ours and ours none but our own:
And with affection wondrous sensible
Full of sad thoughts and troubles.
Hungary's!
I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes.
players that I have seen play, and heard others
So shall each lord of Greece, from tent to tent:
Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak:
By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope
Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me
By his authority I will proclaim it,
That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less;
You gentle gods, give me but this I have,
That, face to face and royal eye to eye,
This man may help me to his majesty's ear,
How many years a mortal man may live.
Things done without example, in their issue
This guest of summer,
The warlike service he has done, consider; think
Their slimy jaws; and, as I draw them up,
But, God he knows, thy share thereof is small:
To set thee here?
Good night.
Upon thy promising fortune.
Prerogative of age, crowns, sceptres, laurels,
Concerning this, sir,--O  well-painted passion!--
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BURGUNDY, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
And with another knot, five-finger-tied,
not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my
When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound,
oak not to be wind-shaken.
Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
Come hither: pray you,
Go, base intruder! overweening slave!
And that, my lord, I shall be loath to do:
Well, the voice goes, madam:
Merrily, merrily shall I live now
And sweating until my very roof was dry
Taxation!
The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not.
Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
Yet none does know, but you, how she came dead,
water, though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more.
And say 'Thrice-welcome, drowned Viola!'
Ay, my good lord: our time does call upon 's.
But, notwithstanding, haste; make no delay:
Till I have learned thy language; for thy tongue
I little like.
[Within]  Cry, Trojans, cry!
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
me see't! I'll in, I'll in. Follow your friend's
Nor pluck it from his finger, for the wealth
Enter CALIBAN
moon; and let men say we be men of good government,
[Aside to MENAS]                 Say in mine ear:
He passes.
Well said, Hal! to it Hal! Nay, you shall find no
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
The time now serves not to expostulate:
Your Rome about your ears.
That which shall break his neck or hazard mine,
And that no man might draw short breath today
Is she wedded or no?
Gentlemen, God save you. If I may be bold,
Go know of Cassio where he supp'd to-night.
Believe't, that we'll do any thing for gold.
Go thou and seek the crowner, and let him sit o' my
That we may arm us to encounter it.
Re-enter Provost
But if the gods themselves did see her then
Nay, he must bear you company. The king
Make up to Clifton: I'll to Sir Nicholas Gawsey.
Chalks successors their way, nor call'd upon
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
Were they that murdered our emperor's brother;
Upon their first lord's neck. But tell me true--
Who led me instantly unto his cave,
'Item: She is not to be kissed fasting in respect
A many of our bodies shall no doubt
Exit
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;
Holla, holla!
Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
When you are dead, you should be such a one
Or with an outstretch'd throat I'll tell the world aloud
Hang over thee, as, sure, it shortly will;
Thanks, good my countryman.
At the good queen's entreaty.
Exeunt
As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant, a
Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns
Alack, and fie for shame!
knapped ginger or made her neighbours believe she
have the booty, if you and I do not rob them, cut
Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,
Go to, I know you well enough.
Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
Bear his betroth'd from all the world away.
ANTIPHOLUS
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your
Enter YOUNG SIWARD
Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men.
Now heavens forbid such scarcity of youth!
I am the best of them that speak this speech,
Take it, and do't; and leave me for this time.
But if an humble prayer may prevail,
And smoke the temple with our sacrifices.
Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
with an old man.
Or whether 'twas report of her success;
He, sir.
It comes upon me. Art thou any thing?
Is that the chain you promised me to-day?
How or which way: 'tis sure they found some place
Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish
Can qualify the same?
Great King of England and my gracious lord,
To see what friends are living, who are dead.
No, forbear;
Christian example? Why, revenge. The villany you
SCENE IV. The forest.
Go to them, with this bonnet in thy hand;
Expect him here: when he shall come and find
Our holy purpose to Jerusalem.
A leg, a limb?
[Aside to POMPEY]  Pompey, a word.
Exeunt severally
Run away with the cozeners; for so soon as I came
Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle;
As you have ever been my father's honour'd friend,
Exit EROS
For Brutus only overcame himself,
Brought to this town by that most famous warrior,
must to the watch.
Stocks brought out
To scourge the ingratitude that despiteful Rome
What's his name?
Ay, but not enough.
could to die before, and he is one of the patterns
Get me a ladder.
Sir, would she give you so much of her lips
The Roman ladies bring not comfort home,
And yet a dispensation may be had.
By holy Paul, they love his grace but lightly
France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
Untied I still my virgin knot will keep.
Your horrible pleasure: here I stand, your slave,
To entail him and his heirs unto the crown,
That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor.
If he be put upon 't; and that's as easy
Give up your staff, sir, and the king his realm.
me: the malignancy of my fate might perhaps
Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam.
Exit an Attendant
Be it as your wisdom will.
Good night, my lord.
So excellent in art, and still so rising,
I mean, sir, in delay
And of the heat of the ginger. It is a beast for
They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.
And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him
A little little grave, an obscure grave;
my mistress: I think I saw your wisdom there.
A mother less? or granted less, Aufidius?
What sayest thou? speak suddenly; be brief.
Of what quality was your love, then?
If I were much in love with vanity!
Exit
For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
It is the devil.
To the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
And tell me what thou notest about the field.
Ay, but the citizens favor Lucius,
He had been aboard, carousing to his mates
Conceive when after many moody thoughts
Let us die in honour: once more back again;
I understand thy kisses and thou mine,
The poorest service is repaid with thanks;
I am surprised with an uncouth fear;
Of hinds and peasants, rude and merciless:
Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet
Asses, fools, dolts! chaff and bran, chaff and bran!
Especially since Charles must father it.
And like a hermit overpass'd thy days.
For this popp'd Paris in his hardiment,
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
Upon the wasted building, suddenly
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
I' the shipman's card.
portend these divisions! fa, sol, la, mi.
Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
Read the will; we'll hear it, Antony;
Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
Here is thy fee; arrest him, officer,
Soldier, thou art: but his whole action grows
Exeunt
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Re-enter GRIFFITH, with CAPUCIUS
How is't with you?
Exit
Thou common whore of mankind, that put'st odds
To instruct her fully in those sciences,
That, like a rude and savage man of Inde,
Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks,
therefore I will attempt the doing it.
You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
May have a tomb of orphans' tears wept on em! What more?
Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
As I intend to thrive in this new world,
craftily qualified too, and, behold, what innovation
Then that, without the knowledge
What is he more than another?
Say you so? Fair lord,--
And yet not so, for what can we bequeath
And that's the reason I love him so little.
are ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs: you
On yon young boy: I'll tell thee what, my friend,
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
And Cassius too.
A jewel in a ten-times-barr'd-up chest
My countrymen,--
Exeunt
of Leda. O omnipotent Love! how near the god drew
There should be one amongst 'em, by his person,
And say if I shall see you soon at night.
A name that in my thoughts becomes me best,
I will not live to be accounted Warwick.
hope of life in him: so he served the second, and
Alas, poor rogue! I think, i' faith, she loves me.
And she's obedient, as you say, obedient,
Lives in his eye; that close aspect of his
be a kind woman in Windsor, she is one. You must
Seek him, bid him come hither: tell him I have
Go, play, boy, play: thy mother plays, and I
'Twas full of darnel; do you like the taste?
You dote on her that cares not for your love.
No, not my body nor my husband's bed:
Tressel and Berkeley, go along with me.
As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
To all our sorrows, and ere long I doubt.
Enter a Servant
these are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed! How
him up ever since he was three years old, and his
Madam, this service I have done for you,
And it appears he is beloved of those
In ignorant concealment.
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
And look how well my garments sit upon me;
And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth,
And let not Bardolph's vital thread be cut
Reigns that which would be fear'd: 'tis much he dares;
Abraham and Mistress Anne Page.
The name and not the thing.
Thus have I shunn'd the fire for fear of burning,
Let there be letters writ to every shire,
Ay, my good lord.
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
Left and abandon'd of his velvet friends,
To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereof a little
least, he fought with; what wards, what blows, what
Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings;
This small inheritance my father left me
I beg of you to know me, good my lord,
thy wrongs;
Help Salisbury to make his testament:
never think to marry: I must not seem proud: happy
Into my private meditations?
Between my father and my mother lay,
you must go visit the good lady that lies in.
Forgot thee utterly: nor have I time
and fathers declining, the father should be as
And unmatch'd wit and judgment: Ferdinand,
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness;
The noble man have mercy.
By the same token, you are a bawd.
'Twere best he did.
Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot
To fashion this false sport, in spite of me.
England, to mope with his fat-brained followers so
Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
Marry, sir, with needle and thread.
Seals of love, but sealed in vain, sealed in vain.
A senseless help when help past sense we deem.
That.
What is it, Timon?
That greatness should so grossly offer it:
Married my daughter there! for, coming thence,
A privilege never to see me more.
Whereto our health is bound; we are not ourselves
To give me audience: if the midnight bell
A friend.
Washes it off, and sprinkles in your faces
And, for the morning now is something worn,
Excellent wench, say I.
spoil of me.
This deserves death.
Exeunt some with KING HENRY VI
then kiss his foot, then deliver up your pigeons, and
Alas, my father, it befits not me
Exeunt
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
Freshly on me: 'tis surely for a name.
And show fair duty to his majesty.
And when he sleeps will she do what she list.
Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him,
and Helen so blushed, an Paris so chafed, and all the
mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
your present to one Master Bassanio, who, indeed,
One care abroad; he would have all as merry
you, when I have held familiarity with fresher
tumbles, driving the poor fry before him, and at
Rising
Why, what you will.
So many captains, gentlemen and soldiers,
But kiss; one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd,
With whom each minute threatens life or death.
For curious I cannot be with you,
'Some are born great,'--
Here's one comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
That our devices still are overthrown;
Which the world together joins,
my ribs. Father, I am glad you are come: give me
Than for your lady's: you may gather more.
You moonshine revellers and shades of night,
That sort was well fished for.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The widow likes him not, she
picture. Alas the day, how loath you are to offend
Farewell, my lord: what you shall know meantime
Against my child, my daughter Hermia.
The loathness to depart would grow. Adieu!
So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
Throw me again.
An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst
Before I freely speak my mind herein,
see, it is already in snuff.
I am not glad that such a sore of time
Who's there?
Come not to me again: but say to Athens,
saying is, the third pays for all: the triplex,
Exit
God be with you, sir; I will.
SCENE V. The Forest.
Well could I leave our sport to sleep awhile.
For the demand of our neglected tribute
Where is Launce?
O the gods!
I wish't might fall on me, when I was found
Is smooth'd by that below: the learned pate
Make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech,
And wisdom of my council; but I find none.
He did, my lord.
A strange fellow here
Your gracious self, embrace but my direction:
And are you grown so high in his esteem;
Because I am so dwarfish and so low?
Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
hook--what a plague call you him?
Apt to be render'd, for some one to say
Shall she within my power.
Thee and the devil alike. What ho, Pisanio!
off Caesar's images, are put to silence. Fare you
As the free elements. And then for her
He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a
For 'tis of aspics' tongues!
Well, you'll still be too forward.
Would be eternal in our triumph: go,
Well have we done, thrice valiant countrymen:
Show'd mastership in floating; fortune's blows,
Her father's liking: which to bring to pass,
'Tis better using France than trusting France:
Are often welcomest when they are gone.
The chief cause concerns his grace of Canterbury.
We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes
Make no noise, make no noise; draw the curtains:
Fair lords, your fortunes are alike in all,
Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly?
He is justly served;
Princely in both.
Let your breath cool yourself, telling your haste.
The mind shall banquet, though the body pine:
full of vent. Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy;
To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.
Well guess'd, believe me; for that was my meaning.
Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say
And then, to sleep but three hours in the night,
Enter a Messenger
As full of grief as age; wretched in both!
An honest one, I warrant; who deserved
Clock heard
I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own
Or if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth;
So please you, madam,
and I pray you all go with me.
But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
Now, by the burning tapers of the sky,
Be general leprosy! Breath infect breath,
Happily, amen!
sight she uses thee kindly: but thou liest in thy
And is a pattern of celestial peace.
Tell him this tale; and from the mouth of England
Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
I'll try whether my old wit be in request
What title hast thou, traitor, to the crown?
Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you;
What art thou that keepest me out from the house I owe?
A second time I kill my husband dead,
Leaving our rankness and irregular course,
Exeunt
While I was there.
O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
His majesty hath straitly given in charge
instance and argument to commend themselves: I
Then meet and join. Jove's lightnings, the precursors
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
Bedford, if thou be slack, I'll fight it out.
You taught me language; and my profit on't
For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen;
Some time I shall sleep out, the rest I'll whistle.
The youngest son of Priam, a true knight,
The least of these unspeakable deserts,
There make before them. Look, the good man weeps!
Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal
Razeth your cities and subverts your towns
The goer-back. Why came you from your master?
be ruled by him.
And thither will I straight to visit him:
Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear:
The under-hangman of his kingdom, and hated
When I do tell thee, there my hopes lie drown'd,
Our other healthful members even to that sense
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
Marry, well remember'd.
That's all one: you shall play it in a mask, and
Peace; no more. Adieu.
cowards! Let them speak: if they speak more or
I think thou art in mind, and so am I.
Your mother too:
Pompey.
Temperance was a delicate wench.
[Reads]  ''Gamut' I am, the ground of all accord,
A second night of such sweet shortness which
Have learn'd me how to brook this patiently.
Enter a Nobleman
Were fit for thee to use as they to claim,
Mistress Page, divulge Page himself for a secure and
The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold,
Enter STANLEY
Whiles I in this affair do thee employ,
Waged equal with him.
When you have given good morning to your mistress,
And in the imitation of these twain--
What party I do follow.
Oft have you heard me wish for such an hour,
And won by rareness such solemnity.
That is some satire, keen and critical,
Do not draw the curtain.
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
thankful for it.
that, making God so free an offer, He let him
That makes thee stare thus? Wherefore breaks that sigh
The accent of his tongue affecteth him.
Come, hold your peace.
How many worthy princes' bloods were shed,
I love thee more and more: think more and more
You, cousin
And leave me out on't. Would I had no being,
Exeunt TROILUS and DIOMEDES, fighting
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!
With her to thee; and this addition more,
Since thou deniest the gentle king to speak.
And so I love and honour thee and thine,
Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe:
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
And so is now, or was so very late;
These ruin'd pillars, out of pity, taken
Of whence I am, nor that I am more better
Be buckled with: the over-daring Talbot
Enter a Lady
And rest myself content.
In forwarding this dear expedience.
your grace
And wheresoe'er he is, he's surely dead.
Before we make election, give me leave
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.
Be my so used a guest as not an hour,
Struck the main-top! O Posthumus! alas,
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
Collected from all simples that have virtue
My remedy is then, to pluck it out.
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
Over thy wounds now do I prophesy,--
I am appointed him to murder you.
The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides!
Right joyous are we to behold your face,
to convince the honour of my mistress, if, in the
Now, sir, is your name Menenius?
Under our tents I'll play the eaves-dropper,
You're servant to the Count Orsino, youth.
Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep
To furnish me upon my longing journey.
Fair sir, I pity her
Render to me some corporal sign about her,
Thy friend no less
Pray you, without any more virginal fencing, will
I will assay thee: so, defend thyself.
What answer makes your grace to the rebels'
An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that lived in
If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
The point!--envenom'd too!
Many good morrows to your majesty;
Again!
Thou hast no feeling of it, Moth: I will speak that l'envoy:
What one, i' faith?
I know not; but I think it was not he.
Must I observe you? must I stand and crouch
Sir Thomas Gargrave, and Sir William Glansdale,
To slay your sovereign and destroy the realm.
The ring of me to give the worthy doctor.
O monstrous, monstrous! and so falls it out
What do you esteem it at?
Being pent from liberty, as I am now,
a copper nose.
This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present
I warrant you sir;
And you shall be conducted.
Exit
dissembled in such a gown. I am not tall enough to
the red-nose innkeeper of Daventry. But that's all
This mad young man: but so much was our love,
A cell of ignorance; travelling a-bed;
Her mother is the lady of the house,
Are masters to their females, and their lords:
he be a whoremonger, and comes before him, he were
O my follies! then Edgar was abused.
'Tis pity they should take him for a stag.
For this care of Tamora,
Me?
In a most dear particular. He call'd me father:
He is deformed, crooked, old and sere,
between that and my blood.
Therefore he will be, Timon:
We shall be shorten'd in our aim, which was
Re-enter BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
My liege, it is young Henry, earl of Richmond.
First, her bedchamber,--
Let him alone:
My lords, I thank you both for your good wills;
You will demand of me why I do this?
ear withal, but I will tell thee aloud 'England is
Should solder up the rift.
a countenance! is't not a brave man?
Am not I your Rosalind?
In faith, I do not: come hither once again.
As much to you, good sister! Whither away?
Give life to yours.
In the unlawful purpose.
Too far in years to be a pupil now:
I might have saved her; now she's gone for ever!
May hang upon your hardness: therefore hear us.
I offer'd to awaken his regard
not men o' their words: they told me I was every
I did upbraid her and fall out with her;
I draw a sword against conspirators;
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
The sum of money which I promised
If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
With hounds of Sparta: never did I hear
Exeunt
Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?
Your pleasure, madam?
Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass,
thus near, that, should she fancy, it should be one
And all the world was of my father's mind:
Exeunt Cupid and Ladies
Who didst thou leave to tend his majesty?
As true a dog as ever fought at head.
Come, come; let's see him out at gates; come.
Well done! avoid; no more!
Yes: 'tis Emilia. By and by. She's dead.
The wanton Edward, and the lusty George?
Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.
[To RICHMOND]
Sword, I will hollow thee for this thy deed,
Exit POLONIUS
For even the day before, she broke her brow:
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.
She that being anger'd, her revenge being nigh,
In this which he accounts so clearly won:
In his abominations, turns you off;
I do not like the office:
him: he is indeed a horse; and all other jades you
Than when I met thee last where now we meet:
I leave an arrant knave with your worship; which I
As we would hear an oracle.
withal, and defy the surgeon?
Who governs here?
Sheathing the steel in my adventurous body.
Great Albion's queen in former golden days:
With modesty admiring thy renown,
To follow still the changes of the moon
It plucks out brains and all: but my Muse labours,
turn; therefore say what a paragon she is, and thou
Doth not thy embassage belong to me,
lion, and thou for a true prince. But, by the Lord,
To be the lord on't. No more yet of this;
you mock at an ancient tradition, begun upon an
His charters and his customary rights;
Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace,
I say again, if Lewis do win the day,
Of all the under fiends. But if so be
Or how far further shall, is warranted
How! bribe me?
Exeunt
Unclasp, unclasp:
Brothers, help to convey her hence away,
For, ladies, we shall every one be mask'd;
Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,
Upon's again.
She loved me for the dangers I had pass'd,
They say he parted well, and paid his score:
That is, hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
Not a more cowardly rogue in all Bohemia: if you had
In Britain where was he
Which industry and courage might have saved?
Reads
By any understanding pate but thine?
become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such
Before I have a husband for the elder:
Que dit-il, monsieur?
If they will patiently receive my medicine.
So I by that; it is my day, my life.
Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.
And prompt me, that my tongue may utter forth
If it be true that I interpret false,
Did they not sometime cry, 'all hail!' to me?
If that I could for weeping, you should hear,--
The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
Or that we would, against the form of law,
I say no more than truth, so help me God!
an arm? no: or take away the grief of a wound? no.
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going;
No, as I am a Christian:
So you thought him;
Will be deceived; for, gentle hearers, know,
Thou art the cap of all the fools alive.
Worse than the scaring bell, when the brown wench
so determinate as the removing of Cassio.
But be he as he will, yet once ere night
But did you never swear, and break an oath?
I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
Titinius, if thou lovest me,
Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
Well, my lord,
Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill
nothing are they welcome.
That doth presume to boast of gentle blood.
Still climbing trees in the Hesperides?
And heartily entreats you take good comfort.
Exeunt
Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
ACT I
Enter a rabble of Citizens (Plebeians), with the AEdiles
Petition us at home: Sextus Pompeius
Could never plant in me.
The endeavor of this present breath may buy
worthiness would stir it up where it wanted rather
To our confusion.
That which combined us was most great, and let not
This cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
ne'er got 'em.
If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven,
I know no answer.
what is thine?
Thy lord, Thersites: then tell me, I pray thee,
Began to crack: twice then the trumpets sounded,
Exit BASTARD OF ORLEANS
Virtue! a fig! 'tis in ourselves that we are thus
Who then? his spirit?
Enter EXETER, BEDFORD, and WESTMORELAND
Why should he, then, protect our sovereign,
And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
empty a heart: but the saying is true 'The empty
Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
Clip dead men's graves and from their misty jaws
Thy words, I grant, are bigger, for I wear not
brother,	EDGAR.'
No, Escanes, know this of me,
Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends,
Work thou the way,--and thou shalt execute.
If I do fail in fortune of my choice,
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
But that your royal pleasure must be done,
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible, playing and singing; FERDINAND following
But cruel are the times, when we are traitors
Upon a labouring day without the sign
A blessed labour, my most sovereign liege:
The morning comes upon 's: we'll leave you, Brutus.
He, he 'tis he.
And by my body's action teach my mind
Clapper-de-claw! vat is dat?
Your voices therefore.' When we granted that,
Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge:
I will not re-salute the streets of Rome,
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour,
Seese is not good to give putter; your belly is all putter.
on you, I can hardly think you my master.
[Above]  Titinius is enclosed round about
breaks yonder?
What, by a horseman, or a footman?
The fairest is confession.
And that well might
I have almost forgot the taste of fears;
Come, Marcus, let us go. Publius, follow me.
But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in
To leave this place. Albeit you have deserved
Hath brought me to thy hearth; not out of hope--
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
in her presence.
you seek us afterwards in other terms, you
Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt,
And that distill'd by magic sleights
as had as lieve hear the devil as a drum; such as
Even to our ocean, to our great King John.
To each word a warbling note:
Which issued from my other angel husband
Protects not us: then why should we be tender
Her face was to mine eye beyond all wonder;
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
earned him. Away!
Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
We do no otherwise than we are will'd.
Dear my brother,
And Silvia--witness Heaven, that made her fair!--
At seventeen years many their fortunes seek;
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
mummers; set up the bloody flag against all
go
answered him well.
Biron they call him; but a merrier man,
While you have throats to answer: for myself,
Fie, sir, fie!
Thou hast her, France: let her be thine; for we
Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu?
Sworn to us in your younger enterprise.
O, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparisoned
Your lordship shall along. Come, good Sir Thomas,
And so, I hope, he came by't. Back my ring:
You put our page out: go, you are allow'd;
Alarum. Enter SUFFOLK with MARGARET in his hand
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
Come, let us go. These things, come thus to light,
broke cross.
I charge thee waft me safely cross the Channel.
In their distractions; they now are in my power;
Unmuffles CLAUDIO
Not almost appears,
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
How do you now?
Now, how dost thou look now? O ill-starr'd wench!
Madam, the care I have had to even your content, I
And laboured all I could to do him right;
Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself;
Who should deny it? Come, young one, I like the
Hath he a sister?
You think of him too much.
Content you, gentlemen: I will compound this strife:
him like a carbon ado.
Marry, bachelor,
O Lord!
Enter QUEEN MARGARET
Alarum afar off
WARWICK and the rest cry all, 'Warwick! Warwick!'  and set upon the Guard, who fly, crying, 'Arm! arm!' WARWICK and the rest following them
If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused
You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,
What shall be said to thee?
At home, upon my brother's guard, even there,
This, or else nothing, will inherit her.
No truly sir; not a penny.
To every Roman citizen he gives,
No better.
Some villain, ay, and singular in his art.
And loving farewell of our several friends.
Tell her I am arrested in the street
O, I am slain! My lord, you have one eye left
Let's do it after the high Roman fashion,
I know not, mighty sovereign, but by guess.
Lose our drum! well.
Would I were as deep under the earth as I am above!
Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bowers.
Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream,
What is thy name?
Their lips were four red roses on a stalk,
Know you the hand?
Welcome, my son: who are the violets now
Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends,
Do but behold yon poor and starved band,
And will not be uplifted. But remember--
Something of me, or what concerns me: pray you,--
But the queen's kindred and night-walking heralds
Relieved, but not betray'd.
After the last enchantment you did here,
forty pound apiece, and a seal-ring of my
The rain and wind beat dark December, how,
'Tis so; and here's the ladder for the purpose.
And that unhappy king, my master, whom
'Twas merry when
Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
Myself to be a marvellous proper man.
Dear sir, forbear.
Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash.
That never knew what truth meant: I now seal it;
Shall never find it more.
O heavens! O heavens!
I'll use thee kindly for thy mistress' sake,
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
And that was all?
For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast,
In bringing up my child.
Here.
No wonder, sir;
From Claudio and the prince: but what's your will?
Rot half a grain a day! he lies to the heart:
Let's think in private more.
are to be laid upon the children: therefore, I
O, pardon, sir, it doth; and yon gray lines
A man that all his time
gown that they praise so.
Must be companion of his nuptial bed:
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
do yours, for upholding the nice fashion of your
Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!
learned, like Sir Proteus, to wreathe your arms,
defect,--'Ladies,'--or 'Fair-ladies--I would wish
'Tis not a time
I am not partial to infringe our laws:
And I, that haply take them from him now,
Stay you, good gentlemen. Look you pale, mistress?
So fair an outward and such stuff within
wants. I pray you, fail me not.
imports it.
That this lives in thy mind? What seest thou else
life, for then we are sure they are true.
Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
In us, thy friend: give me thy hand, stand up:
Discuss unto me; art thou officer?
Wherefore was that cry?
I pray thee, stay a while: I hope my holy humour
My mother, being heir unto the crown
A good knave, i' faith, and well fed.
So, now uncape.
Hail, many-colour'd messenger, that ne'er
Authority so weighty.
Weigh'd between loathness and obedience, at
Who deem'd our marriage lawful: wherefore I humbly
yet look after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense
More blessed hap did ne'er befall our state.
You are resolute, then?
I love thee, and it is my love that speaks--
Fear not my government.
wife. 'Rivo!' says the drunkard. Call in ribs, call in tallow.
What means this jest? I pray you, master, tell me.
Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
By this white glove;--how white the hand, God knows!--
Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff
course truly. If thou would have such a one, take
I consanguineous? am I not of her blood?
Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?
Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd
Then thus it must be; this doth Joan devise:
An ass's nole I fixed on his head:
his dagger.
His is certain, ours is doubtful.
Heavens, what a man is there! a very horse,
Well then, now
He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester town;
Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen.
Seditious to his grace and to the state.
On the blest lovers.
SCENE IX. Another part of the plain.
Enter the Ghost of King Henry VI
SCENE V. OLIVIA'S house.
being governed, as the sea is, by our noble and
Why, mistress, sure my master is horn-mad.
Ay, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrow
Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
Should I lie, madam?
Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS, with their Army
Wilt thou still talk?
Will play the cook and servant; 'tis our match:
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
Dost thou detest her therefore?
Heigh-ho! an it be not four by the day, I'll be
And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?
lend me thy sword.
What an infinite mock is this, that a man should
And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand,
Where he bestows himself?
If you will live, lament; if die, be brief,
To curb those raging appetites that are
It's true, good lieutenant.
Here to unfold, though lately we intended
To die is to be banish'd from myself;
And though that nature with a beauteous wall
Which he will put on us, as pigeons feed their young.
Love's thrice repured nectar? death, I fear me,
If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof
Were not the proof so nigh. Please you, great sir,
Mistake me not; I speak but as I find.
Prove them, and I lie open to the law:
In that's no changeling; and I must excuse
Though I condemn not, yet, under pardon,
He must not live to trumpet forth my infamy,
Than at the strangeness of it.
If thou proceed in this thy insolence.
You, merchant, have you any thing to say?
Pleaseth your highness, ay: here they are, madam:
I am not of that feather to shake off
what's noble,
Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all;
If you will marry, make your loves to me,
None, madam.
senseless and fit man for the constable of the
uneducated, unpruned, untrained, or rather,
The Duke of York is newly come from Ireland,
We have convenient convoy. You must know
Would cast the gorge at, this embalms and spices
Excellent! I smell a device.
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose; that
As day does to your eye.
What pageantry, what feats, what shows,
No, sir: yet oft,
The count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor
thought her spirit had been invincible against all
Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
To hear? or forbear laughing?
And come ye now to tell me John hath made
with us? we have sport in hand.
Why, and I trust I may go too, may I not? What,
your mistress; be moved, be moved.
And not your knowledge, your personal pain, but even
I thank you for your wish, and am well pleased
'--O heart, heavy heart,
Exeunt
Come on; obey:
O, now I would they had changed voices too!
A trade, sir, that, I hope, I may use with a safe
Cuckoo, cuckoo: O word of fear,
But thou shouldst please me better, wouldst thou weep.
cowl-staff? look, how you drumble! Carry them to
Was foully snatch'd.
To dim his glory and to stain the track
The king has sent me otherwhere: besides,
To hover on the dreadful shore of Styx?
Give him much wrong'd.
esteemed greatness, will you hear the dialogue that
That of yourself which you yet know not of.
The proffer'd means of succor and redress.
Twice did he turn his back and purposed so;
And so have I address'd me. Fortune now
An I cannot, cannot, cannot,
Full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains,
o'ershower'd,
In seeking tales and informations
In gross rebellion and detested treason:
To him will we prove loyal: till that time
These likelihoods confirm her flight from hence.
great reckoning in a little room. Truly, I would
Thou wast their nurse; they took thee for
Keep this remembrance for thy Julia's sake.
And I did laugh sans intermission
Sport! of what colour?
For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate,
Come now, your one thing.
Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it;
And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
How now! what's the matter?
That's worthily
To their subsequent volumes, there is seen
I am resolved.
You shall not have it, Diomed; faith, you shall not;
Let's yet be fellows; let's shake our heads, and say,
As honour, loss of time, travail, expense,
Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.
Your brother kings and monarchs of the earth
The great metropolis and see of Rome:
And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!
And then I came away.
When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot,
This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven
Whom thus we stray to find, and the sea mocks
And what shall become of those in the city?
Your weeping sister is no wife of mine,
of the south, the guts-griping, ruptures, catarrhs,
Or, he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
with thee in faction; I will o'errun thee with
Why, what need we
Who are surprised withal; but my rejoicing
melancholy, I did commend the black-oppressing humour
That an invisible instinct should frame them
His mother was a witch, and one so strong
He hath found the meaning, for which we mean
Giving a ring
And none but tyrants use it cruelly.
Draws out his table-book
yet his brother is reputed one of the best that is:
You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not
Thou but offend'st thy lungs to speak so loud:
Strong-fixed is the house of Lancaster,
Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike
O good Iago,
Show me a thousand that have done thee wrong,
Come, Stanley, shall we go?
In most rich choice; yet in his idle fire,
Your carriage from the court. My noble mistress,
Fear not that, my lord.
He plucks it out of his bosom and reads it
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both!
And do not break into these deep extremes.
He wishes earnestly you never may.
ne'er the wiser.
That thou, residing here, go'st yet with me,
Lies foul with chew'd grass, still and motionless;
I may be pluck'd into the swallowing womb
I give you; and gold confound you howsoe'er! Amen.
Fie, how impatience loureth in your face!
Saddle my horse.
Exit
And what a terror he had been to France.
What, art thou lame?
And fearfully did menace me with death,
Your crown and kingdom, indirectly held
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
By Suffolk and the Cardinal Beaufort's means.
Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
This will I carry to Rome.
Exeunt
Hush, master! here's some good pastime toward:
Why, then she is the devil's dam; a joyful issue.
So poorly in your thoughts.
Upon the heath.
Dromio, what stuff of mine hast thou embark'd?
Ha! who calls?
Enter HELENA and Widow
Gazed each on other, and look'd deadly pale.
Some messenger betwixt me and the peers;
His tyranny for trifles; his own bastardy,
Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
The paper as the body of my friend,
Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but 'I,'
There is my hand.
But Henry now shall wear the English crown,
such alligant terms; and in such wine and sugar of
Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom
You must needs have them with a codpiece, madam.
Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand' to
Unto a youthful gentleman of worth,
I am content.
To bring you thus together, 'tis no sin,
Under the Dauphin.
Do, good my lord, lest all the land do rue it.
Imprison'd and in scarcity of friends,
I take this offer, then; pay the bond thrice
heart good. Yonder comes Paris, yonder comes Paris.
And his affections dark as Erebus:
Who dares receive it other,
O, sir, a courtesy
Or in his emmence that fills it up,
No, his conscience
prince: I cannot tell, good sir, for which of his
over this stool and run away.
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND and others, with the prisoners
With bleared visages, come forth to view
yields pound and odd shilling; fifteen hundred
Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
More needs she the divine than the physician.
If that same demon that hath gull'd thee thus
Lucy, farewell; no more my fortune can,
where's that?
man so bad as is thyself.
Do themselves homage: these fellows have some soul;
Work without it. Truth is, that Fulvia,
Here on my knee I beg mortality,
The king my father shall be made acquainted
Unbind my hands, I'll pull them off myself,
Bound to himself! what doth he with a bond
That have preserved her welfare in my blood;
In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions
Who hath a story ready for your ear.
Exeunt
The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain,
discharging less than the tenth part of one. They
A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt;
Nearest the merchant's heart. Be merciful:
endeavours; for then we wound our modesty and make
I saw him not.
Your wit makes wise things foolish: when we greet,
I see a man's life is a tedious one:
appears too grossly.
Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
Your loss your sport: I hope you know that we
What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?
And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
When he would play the noble beast in love.
That we remain your friend; and so, adieu.
Thy lewd, pestiferous and dissentious pranks,
And it grows fouler.
This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.
snake; and I will have an apology for that purpose.
The bug which you would fright me with I seek.
This tun of treasure; and, in lieu of this,
half stewed in grease, like a Dutch dish, to be
So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow
And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do,
Enter CORNELIUS and Ladies
We'll all assist you; he that flies shall die.
Why, let her except, before excepted.
Shall I be heard?
I know the reason, lady, why you ask.
But cozen'd and beguiled.
'Twas I that kill'd her.
He is not here, so please your lordship that should sing it.
And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.
Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with
No, Caesar hath it not; but you and I,
melancholy out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs.
I am content that he shall take the odds
Enter, on the walls, the Mayor of York, and his Brethren
To this chair bind him. Villain, thou shalt find--
Sir?
Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth!
That Herod's head
My lord and master loves you: O, such love
Have you heard of no likely wars toward, 'twixt the
you say honestly.
To lip a wanton in a secure couch,
In countenance! Heaven shield your grace from woe,
My blessing go with thee!
Matter against him that for ever mars
But where's the great Alcides of the field,
will be considered.
We cannot miss him: he does make our fire,
O madam, madam, madam!
Never lacks power to dismiss itself.
Well, every one can master a grief but he that has
You to your former honour I bequeath;
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
How long hast thou to serve, Francis?
so: they are in a most warlike preparation, and
But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian,
They would not thread the gates. This kind of service
Thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon;
counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never
As I would wish mine enemy.
Exit from the walls
The other part reserved I by consent,
Heavens make a star of him! Yet there, my queen,
stammer, that thou mightst pour this concealed man
Who can control his fate? 'tis not so now.
As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth,
I have as much of this in art as you,
Enter PANDARUS
therefore never flout at me for what I have said
Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio.
Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
I think thee now some common customer.
This dead king to the living king I'll bear
good discretion.
as lief have been myself alone.
Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
What, household stuff?
Nay, stay, Sir John, awhi le, and we'll debate
And if thou fail us, all our hope is done:
Drop on you both! a south-west blow on ye
To stop the air would hurt them. The blind mole casts
O'ertopping woman's power. Madam, you do me wrong:
Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand,
Then are we all undone.
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, EXETER, GLOUCESTER,  WARWICK, SOMERSET, and SUFFOLK; the BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, RICHARD PLANTAGENET, and others.  GLOUCESTER offers to put up a bill; BISHOP OF WINCHESTER snatches it, and tears it
Seek to divert the English purposes.
A passion hateful to my purposes,
O, when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd!
Which to prevent he made a law,
You found his mote; the king your mote did see;
To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here,
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Taking advantage of our misery,
Lysander and myself will fly this place.
once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus:
That very oft we pity enemies.
If I depart from thee, I cannot live;
We might recover all our loss again;
My Lord Bassanio, since you have found Antonio,
We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk,
And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were.
This is the king's ring.
And show more sign of her obedience,
And in defence of my lord's worthiness,
May't please your majesty to give us leave
Be you content: good Cinna, take this paper,
That is her ransom; I deliver her;
Thorough flood, thorough fire,
That will undo her: to confirm this too,
a dishclout of Jaquenetta's, and that a' wears next
Go to my steward.
Now, like a man of steel. You that will fight,
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
Aside
Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
Here an alarum, and it thunders and lightens
And gentlemen in England now a-bed
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
Of loss, of slaughter and discomfiture:
How some have been deposed; some slain in war,
That he will not. 'Tis your fault, 'tis your fault;
To all our subjects. Set we forward: let
He is vex'd at something.
Where England?
The king hath heard them; to the which as yet
I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see:
A neat-herd's daughter, and my Leonatus
Than doth become a man. I will remain
I am a-weary, give me leave awhile:
That tyrannous heart can think? To one of your receiving
[Aside]               You will be whipp'd.
Which is not owed to you!
Accords not with the sadness of my suit:
My lord,--
And sees fast by a butcher with an axe,
If either of you both love Katharina,
In a most curious mantle, wrought by the hand
ACT I
Makes me most forward in this noble presence
I do; and bear the shame most patiently.
My learned lord, we pray you to proceed
and, by this hand, she falls me thus about my neck--
And, as I think, they have already order
Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die.
Are gone, are gone:
Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood,
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON bearing off the Nurse's body
The crown imperial; lilies of all kinds,
Exeunt Pyramus and Thisbe
Hath made her break out into terms of rage!
On what condition stands it and wherein?
Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front;
Thanks, Jupiter!
Else shall you not have any hand at all
That your free undertaking cannot miss
My lord and husband!
That Cupid will impose for my neglect
I found by fortune and did give my husband;
Here, boy, to Pallas: here, to Mercury:
No doubt, shall then and till then govern well.
The general of our horse thou art; and we,
You use me well, Master Ford, do you?
Hath left mine arm: it was thy master's: 'shrew me,
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
Let Pericles believe his daughter's dead,
Therefore I do advise you, take this note:
Most just and heavy causes make oppose.
the Garter?
The triple pillar of the world transform'd
Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know
These deeds must not be thought
Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind
And, with the rest full-mann'd, from the head of Actium
And barbarism itself have pitied him.
Which cannot hear a lady's feeble voice,
Give me your hand;
Thither we bend again.
Enter SIR NATHANIEL, for Alexander
With juice of balm and every precious flower:
Enter a Messenger
Armed in arguments; you'll be surprised:
I pray thee, stay.
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
And set mine eyes at flow.
he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
commendation with woman than report of valour.
To her I go, a jolly thriving wooer.
Here comes your cousin.
Disturb him not; let him pass peaceably.
Hadst thou groan'd for him
Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land;
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
And will return to Venice. Hence, avaunt!
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.
That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore.
We are two lions litter'd in one day,
I cannot do it; yet I'll hammer it out.
So, on my soul, he did, for aught he knew.
Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er
By every syllable a faithful verity:
Tearing the letter
Here is Got's plessing, and your friend, and Justice
And make them know what 'tis to let a queen
I' the common show-place, where they exercise.
'Tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises
That his soul sicken not.
And new-create this fault?
Ay, forsooth: but he is as tall a man of his hands
combustion in the state. I missed the meteor once,
Stand close, and list him.
Here comes his mother.
I yield all this;
Under whose government come they along?
He and myself
Hence, heap of wrath, foul indigested lump,
Now, master sheriff, what is your will with me?
Proceed, proceed	I'll give her.
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
Why do you speak so faintly?
As if it had lungs and rotten ones.
The time shall not be many hours of age
You know not what it is.
I pray, draw near.
You will think you have made no offence, if the duke
How is it with Titus Lartius?
'What my great-grandfather and his grandsire got
The offences we have made you do we'll answer,
Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
Like lies disdain'd in the reporting.
vouchsafe me.
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
I will follow you.
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
As good as we?
Enter PERICLES, on shipboard
The safety and health of this whole state;
I have been in many; but such a night as this,
Enter THERSITES, solus
That hath so long been resident in France?
With that, methoughts, a legion of foul fiends
To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
If thou darest bring them to the baiting place.
Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
Good uncle, tell your tale; I have done.
I know our country disposition well;
Kinsmen, his sorrows are past remedy.
None in the world; nor do I know the man.
Troth, sir, all is in his hands above: but
That this is true, father, behold his blood.
Ay, if a woman live to be a man.
Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,
on when thou art dead and rotten, come hither. What
For do but note a wild and wanton herd,
Than they are to their virtues; which is nothing.
To propagate their states: amongst them all,
Are you a married man or a bachelor?
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
Right, if doing nothing be death by the law.
To take in many towns ere almost Rome
I will discuss the humour of this love to Page.
But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
I have a wife, whom, I protest, I love:
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
I will entreat; my boy, a Briton born,
I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
That have my heart parted betwixt two friends
Exeunt
Love's reason's without reason: the bier at door,
Of princely fellows, shalt hereafter find
I do beweep to many simple gulls
Let us be wary, let us hide our loves;'
Fly o'er thy royal head, and shade thy person
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
Let it flow this way, my good lord.
And dispossess her all.
Now give me some surance that thou art Revenge,
I am bound to your niece, sir; I mean, she is the
I thank ye heartily; so shall this lady,
You shall see.
Be your tears wet? yes, 'faith. I pray, weep not:
My very heart at root.
Or by his foe surprised at unawares:
Re-enter POINS
Yet had not we determined he should die,
Most noble sir,
Gracious madam,
BISHOP
when you may.
Tug him away: being whipp'd,
Like a demigod here sit I in the sky.
If they return in their own shapes to woo?
Well, farewell; I am in great haste now.
Despoiled of your honour in your life,
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
If that I do not dream or be not frantic,--
And that you will some good instruction give
To try if thou be current gold indeed
Do overpeer the petty traffickers,
may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you
Flourish
Enter MARCUS
In purchasing the semblance of my soul
How like the prodigal doth she return,
three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier.
With scraps o' the court, it is no contract, none:
The king had cut off my head with my brother's.
I know not if the day be ours or no;
My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here
It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
A tucket
I will tell you, sir, if you will give me the hearing.
Have laid most heavy hand.
Not three hours' travel from this very place.
To put my father in impatient thoughts
Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
No chance may shake it. Give me grace to lay
hours at the trade.
Clarence, beware; thou keep'st me from the light:
Her aid she promised and assured success:
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
him partake in the glory of the action: and not
Not a dump we; 'tis no time to play now.
Gives light in darkness, comfort in despair!
No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England:
Wherefore are these things hid? wherefore have
O then belike she was old and gentle; and you rode,
make them bleed, and then to beslubber our garments
'Tis good, sir: you are very short with us;
A seeming mermaid steers: the silken tackle
A chair brought in
A woman, and thy aunt, great king; 'tis I.
No way excuse his soils, when we do bear
which, my instruction shall serve to naturalize
[Reads]  'If any man of quality or degree within
And lulls him whilst she playeth on her back,
Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more
Inch-thick, knee-deep, o'er head and
You have a quick ear.
Alas, poor country!
Than can my ears that tragic history.
I'll not remember you of my own lord,
You four, from hence to prison back again;
I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
To come in to the cry without more help.
Not a whit, when it jars so.
It is Biron's writing, and here is his name.
I will hear Cassius; and compare their reasons,
let it die as it was born, and, I pray you, be
go and vetch me in my closet un boitier vert, a box,
Ha, art thou there?
But dies, betray'd to fortune by your strife.
A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.
she will plod. There must be conclusions. Well, I
Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother;
That he is loved of me: I follow him not
By the exaction of the forfeiture?
Into the law of children. Be not fond,
Since his exile she hath despised me most,
And you!
Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
Who is so far from Italy removed
him: he had, sir, a kind of face, methought,--I
You might have rhymed.
man's apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the
Belike for want of rain, which I could well
Go thy ways, Kate:
in a quarter--of an hour; paid money that I
Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff'd,
Exeunt
A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack,
The Nevils are thy subjects to command.
I am not vexed more at any thing in the earth: a
Young in limbs, in judgment old,
But from this lady may proceed a gem
You promised me to wed.
Exit
The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost,
And will not you maintain the thing you teach,
But, soft you, let me be: pluck up, my heart, and
'Tis truly so.
Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen,
So like you, 'tis the worse. Behold, my lords,
Exit
will think of thee at court.
Will fall some blessing to this land, which shall
There be fools alive, I wis,
And, with grey hairs and bruise of many days,
I would my father look'd but with my eyes.
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
We must not only arm to invade the French,
On thine allegiance, hear me!
Yet confident I'll keep what I have swore
Thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea;
Touch their effects in this: thyself art coming
you are o' the commission,
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
Live register'd upon our brazen tombs
Enter GRATIANO, LORENZO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
And makest them kiss! that speak'st with
Runs his erring pilgrimage,
dagger with a master of fence; three veneys for a
The help of one stands me in little stead.
Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office,
On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart:
And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
They vented their complainings; which being answer'd,
And say withal I think he held the right.
Thurio borrows his wit from your ladyship's looks,
Out of my door, you witch, you hag, you baggage, you
To good or bad.
But join in friendship, as your lords have done.
Whose height commands as subject all the vale,
Your highness
The lineal glory of your royal house,
requesting your lordship to supply his instant use
Become the forest better than the town?
I'll claim that promise at your grace's hands.
No, no, men living flatter those that die.
Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
you our voices heartily.
Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
is to be a counterfeit; for he is but the
embraces his son-in-law; then again worries he his
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
I must show out a flag and sign of love,
puts transgression to 't.
Speak to me home, mince not the general tongue:
Thanks, madam; well.
That fret the clouds are messengers of day.
And in conclusion to oppose the bolt
I after him do after him wish too,
Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
You train me to offend you; get you in:
As closely to conceal what we impart:
Royal cheer, I warrant you.
The sea's a thief, whose liquid surge resolves
That stay at home, if bearing carry it,
I'll ever serve his mind with my best will;
Your favours, the ambassadors of love;
Enter, on the turrets, SALISBURY and TALBOT, GLANSDALE, GARGRAVE, and others
I will be thine; and till that instant shut
Descended into perjury, to love me.
For King of England shalt thou be proclaim'd
Ay, dread queen.
As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds,
Why, would not you?
Have you
hope to see a housewife take thee between her legs
Thy crown does sear mine eye-balls. And thy hair,
faith and my heart of steel,
Or we will plague thee with incessant wars.
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
Not I, sir; pray you, keep on.
Thanks, Reignier, happy for so sweet a child,
yourself and I will not be there; and when they
Here let us breathe and haply institute
My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, of
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
Exeunt BENEDICK and LEONATO
Drum beats. Exeunt ALCIBIADES, PHRYNIA, and TIMANDRA
Learned and reverend fathers of his order,
But say, I could not help it.
Guard her till Caesar come.
That's a certain text.
SCENE I. The forest.
The epitaph is for Marina writ
And one whom much I honour.
The noble sister of Publicola,
I bade you never speak again of him:
On my word, it will serve him; she's as big as he
We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow 'em.
Recover breath; tell us how near is danger,
Exeunt
Hail, Caesar! read this schedule.
The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
Then every soldier kill his prisoners:
Do hourly carp and quarrel; breaking forth
To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights
Follow your spirit, and upon this charge
With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had lived!
My wish receive,
And I'll spring up in his tears, an 'twere a nettle
Lucifer and Belzebub himself, it is necessary, look
Legitimation, name and all is gone:
Hand in hand, with fairy grace,
Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool,--
That there be women do abuse their husbands
scarce a maid westward but she sings it; 'tis in
I loved her most, and thought to set my rest
a coal of fire, sometimes plue and sometimes red;
How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
My most dread sovereign, may it like your grace
From Antony win Cleopatra: promise,
The expedition my violent love
Exterior form, outward accoutrement,
Yes, if you love me, sir.
Now, pretty one, how long have you been at this trade?
Why?
There I deny my land service. But give me your
Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
Humbly I thank your lordship: never may
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
Calls her a nonpareil: I never saw a woman,
The pommel of Caesar's falchion.
The first service thou dost me, fetch that suit
With other muniments and petty helps
I lay up thy lips.
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, and OLIVER
The ancient proverb will be well effected:
Enter HECTOR and ANDROMACHE
evidence; therefore stand aside.
Which, but for him that had your husband's ring,
And be undone by 'em!
Like a ripe sister: the woman low
what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be
Your worth is very dear in my regard.
The strong necessity of time commands
Exeunt
Shall Caesar send a lie?
Where did you study all this goodly speech?
And, Nevil, this I do assure myself:
Is yet to name the winner: fare you well.
At sea in childbed died she, but brought forth
DON
O love! O life! not life, but love in death!
The borrow'd glories that by gift of heaven,
house is turned upside down since Robin Ostler died.
Ha! o' my life, if I were young again, the sword
entreaty, and himself to the drink.
When they did say 'God bless us!'
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,
Tell him it was a hand that warded him
As it may lose some colour.
An offer, uncle, that we will accept:
Good time, and live: but for the stock, Sir Thomas,
The secrets of my heart.
I know no touch of it, my lord.
The founder of this law and female bar.
By his blunt bearing he will keep his word,
to, you are a woman, go.
Thou art a villain.
That I must bear a part.
to come in disguised against me to try a fall.
He's walking in the garden--thus; and spurns
Bid me farewell, and smile. I pray you, come.
If she refuse me: and from hence I go,
Sir, sir, sir,--
How like, methought, I then was to this kernel,
Fairies use flowers for their charactery.
Made in her concave shores?
Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds
No; bear it with you, lest I come not time enough.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Shall be the general's fault, though he perform
The mortal gate of the city, which he painted
Commends his good opinion of you, and
There is a queen, attended by a Moor;
Well, sir, by this you cannot get my land:
But in the night or in the time of war.
For single combat in convenient place,
And deny himself for Jove,
That in a gondola were seen together
The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis received,
Much will be seen in that. In the mean time,
Thou must be patient; we came crying hither:
To bless the bed of majesty again
Why, madam, so, no doubt, he is.
Then call them to our presence; face to face,
thing. The wills above be done! but I would fain
followed the arts!
My fair rose wither: yet look up, behold,
My lord, there needs no such apology:
And here the bracelet of the truest princess
And, I think, if my breast had not been made of
I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, count,
Sick in the world's regard, wretched and low,
Son, on my life,
I hope so, sir; for I have about me many parcels of charge.
You grow exceeding strange: must it be so?
His wit set down to make his valour live
you, he put it by once: but, for all that, to my
Take no unkindness of his hasty words:
Better consider what you have to do
I dread, too late.
Withdraws
And prove the period of their tyranny,
disposed to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and
No more do yours: your virtues, gentle master,
That he may furnish and instruct great teachers,
Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made
Which well I am assured I have not done,
To a lady of France that he call'd Rosaline.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
RICHARD
Then whither he goes, thither let me go.
From the four corners of the earth they come,
To horse, you gallant princes! straight to horse!
That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother,
These dangerous unsafe lunes i' the king,
Omit we all their dole and woe:
And sold their bodies for their country's benefit,
In the old time of war, would shake the press,
Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
A sunny look of his would soon repair
Because Love is blind. O, that you had mine eyes;
Hear ye, Yedward; if I tarry at home and go not,
Giving KENT money
words plain, 'Sirrah, knock me here, rap me here,
will is, it should be so returned: if it be worth
When I am absent, then lie with my wife.
No.
Re-enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, BIANCA, BAPTISTA, HORTENSIO, GRUMIO, and Train
I dare thee but to breathe upon my love.
Look, who comes here! a grave unto a soul;
Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.
[Aside]  O, ho, I know the riddle.--I will go.
Come hither, spirit:
Out of this world; tell him, in death I bless'd him,
Though from an humble stock, undoubtedly
To find out right with wrong, it may not be;
villain Posthumus, will I kill thee. I would these
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
For Talbot means no goodness by his looks.
Of these our dear-beloved solemnized;
Decrease not, but grow faster than the years:
You sacrifice your tears, your sighs, your heart:
Not i' the stocks, fool.
Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour
Being of those virtues vacant. I fear nothing
a man? Shallow, shallow. A better instance, I say; come.
Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,
that lord; he's ever sending: how shall I thank
To let you know of it.
To save this bastard's life,--for 'tis a bastard,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
Before I see thee seated in that throne
Alas, thrice-gentle Cassio!
Through whom I might command it? Come thou near.
First tried our soldiership! He did look far
This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold
married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never
Abhorred slave,
Before my perfect honour, swore to Cymbeline
Ay, my good lord; and no one in this presence
Most radiant, exquisite and unmatchable beauty,--I
When he did need your loves, and do you think
What, are you married?
drowned; and these are devils: O defend me!
for you did bring me out.
At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day:
And make poor England weep in streams of blood!
Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?
Stay, let thy humble handmaid speak to thee.
Or else return no more into my sight.
Make the hoar leprosy adored, place thieves
All the conspirators save only he
The man I speak of cannot in the world
such a place;' some swearing, some crying for a
Against the state and profit of this land;
And I'll request your presence.
When these so noble benefits shall prove
My Lord Biron, see him deliver'd o'er:
be endured! Well, go your way to her, for I see
than to hear you. If you be not mad, be gone; if
My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
Strain'd purely from all hollow bias-drawing,
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
Enter SIR WALTER BLUNT
Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there,
I boarded the king's ship; now on the beak,
Is it a custom?
Your brother and his lover have embraced:
Thou art the nonpareil.
Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?
That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar,
What is your pleasure?
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
Splitted the heart. This is his sword;
Why even what fashion thou best likest, Lucetta.
From out the fiery portal of the east,
As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
Without observance or respect of any,
Yea, scandalous to the world.
Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors.
Whilst Dighton thus told on: 'We smothered
He doth with holy abstinence subdue
Towards her deserved children is enroll'd
Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the days;
The utter loss of all the realm of France.
Why, this it is to be a peevish girl,
Cassius,
Letters should not be known; riches, poverty,
O, but she is wise.
Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale
Should with your body.
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Upon condition Publius shall not live,
O my good lord, you were the first that found me!
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
I willingly obey your command.
Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water?
There's never a one of you but trusts a knave,
Here's Gloucester, a foe to citizens,
For England, cousin, go:
Alas, poor shepherd!
Flourish. Re-enter, from one side, SATURNINUS  attended, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON and AARON; from the other, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, and others
here the voluntary, and you as under an impress.
but my Nell would not have it so. How chance my
like an old lecher's heart; a small spark, all the
And bid the lady abbess come to me.
Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
impudency, learned without opinion, and strange with-
Clerk-like experienced, which no less adorns
And gave you such a masterly report
In our black sentence and proscription.
[Reads]  'Item, It is further agreed between them,
Took stand for idle speculation:
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman.
Is't so, my lords of England?
To give the onset to thy good advice.
When I dissuaded him from his intent,
Self-mettle tires him. Not a man in England
Enter OLIVIA
I found it in my chamber:
Your hand, my lord.
If then the king your father will restore
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
The deserts of Bohemia?
I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
Rome shall remedy this.
On greatness' favour dream as I have done,
My lords, when you shall know--as in this rage,
She's tickled now; her fume needs no spurs,
Shall never see so much, nor live so long.
Look you, I love you well; I'll give you gold,
To give my tongue that heat to ask your help;
First, of my word; therefore play, music. Prince,
Cry.
What says Ulysses?
Give me advantage of some brief discourse
God, for thy mercy! they are loose again.
with thee.
I came from Edward as ambassador,
Be quiet and depart: thou shalt not have him.
A little witness my obedience: look!
Then thus: of many good I think him best.
And she alone were cold: whereat I, wretch,
Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.
With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty;
The one by the other.
gibbets, I never saw one so prone. Yet, on my
So we could find some pattern of our shame.
Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?
Nor mother, wife, nor England's counted queen.
of his eye, forehead, and complexion, he shall find
Exit above
taken with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true
What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to;
But let her rest in her unrest awhile.
How to choose right, but I am then forsworn;
I told you, I, he was a frantic fool,
With bootless labour swim against the tide
But not take in the mind.
and delivered to the king her father'--
be of what colour it please God. Ha! the prince and
And that high royalty was ne'er pluck'd off,
Each fair instalment, coat, and several crest,
Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack.
is within a very little of nothing.
Doubt and suspect, alas, are placed too late:
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
thank my God it holds yet.
And the contrarious winds that held the king
Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age;
In peace what each of them by the other lose,
mistook in you!
Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world.
Had we done so at first, we had droven them home
You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects--
With the rude brevity and discharge of one.
O, he has given example for our flight,
Now Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
To their whole being! I am rapt and cannot cover
Not of this country, though my chance is now
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
direction till thy death! then if she that lays thee
And he, that suffer's. O, it is excellent
My man's abode where I did leave him: he
God gi' god-den. I pray, sir, can you read?
'Besides, you waste the treasure of your time with
My lord?
Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy thane,
Yea, but a little charge will trench him here
Be he unto me! this do I beg of God,
The venomous malice of my swelling heart!
Prayers and tears have moved me, gifts could never.
Do the boys carry it away?
And leave us to our free election.
Alarum. Enter BRUTUS and MESSALA
Then well one more may fair Bianca have:
And do not interrupt me in my course.
The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.
The kings that have revolted, and the soldier
Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot;
Even such a husband
To gather from thee: haply thou mayst inform
you are so crossed.
EPILOGUE
Since riches point to misery and contempt?
Longer, longer.
that I can write my name.
Who would be thence that has the benefit of access?
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap:
My lord of Burgundy.
[Advancing]  Come, sir, you blush; as his your case is such;
Most dangerously you have with him prevail'd,
Alack, my fellows, what should I say to you?
Enter EDGAR
Exeunt
Say, has our general met the enemy?
That I am that same wall; the truth is so:
Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue and groan:
resorters stand upon sound legs. How now!
All that served Brutus, I will entertain them.
Disorder, that hath spoil'd us, friend us now!
your mother's cat had but kittened, though yourself
And keep your honours safe!
Oft have I seen a hot o'erweening cur
Could he not speak 'em fair?
If could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would
Fool's play, by heaven, Hector.
And that great minds, of partial indulgence
A lie; you are rough and hairy. Let me have no
What's the matter?
If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.
Stand, sir, and throw us that you have about ye:
conqueror; and it would do well to set the deer's
Back to our brother England.
Acknowledge mine.
My father gave me honour, yours gave land.
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion.
I am; therefore come down, and welcome me.
What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?
rewards me, God reward him! If I do grow great,
The English army, that divided was
Flaminius, I have noted thee always wise. Here's to thee.
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and a British Lord
Have you a catalogue
of all cess.
Were I but where 'tis spoken.
challenger's youth I would fain dissuade him, but he
The queen with all the northern earls and lords
Thy brothers are condemn'd, and dead by this.
I'll not believe but they ascend the sky,
Our comfort in the country. We must find
Though in the trade of war I have slain men,
Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
At Ephesus, the temple see,
O Tranio, till I found it to be true,
There's yet one good in ten.
Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once
shall not a maid be married, but she shall pay to me
self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold.
By mine honour, half drunk. What is he at the gate, cousin?
business of the master the author of the servant's
Is led on in the conduct of my will;
ears ere it be out.
Well praised! How if she be black and witty?
And these great tears grace his remembrance more
There to be crowned England's royal king:
Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
promise him an excellent piece.
You have not been inquired after:
Would be unparallel'd.
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but
Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
shall be a mock for his truth, and what truth can
We'ld fight there too. But this it is; our foot
To drink to these fair ladies, and a measure
consider your music the better: if it do not, it is
Exit OSRIC
Either thou art most ignorant by age,
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,
Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
Boy sings
I do know
Why art thou old, and want'st experience?
Ay, traitor, Marcius!
If not, that, I being queen, you bow like subjects,
So 'tis reported, sir.
Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
tish ill done; by my hand, tish ill done!
Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,
like a strong distillation, with stinking clothes
Kent, on thy life, no more.
And wouldst thou have me cast my love on him?
Steering with due course towards the isle of Rhodes,
I have abandon'd Troy, left my possession,
Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day,
Exit
As sense cannot untie. Be what it is,
Since she is living, let the time run on
Money buys lands, and wives are sold by fate.
comptible, even to the least sinister usage.
Yet keeps his book uncross'd: no life to ours.
Ay, it is fit for your lordship only.
Gallus, go you along.
Ajax goes up and down the field, asking for himself.
And by an eminent body that enforced
company to-night?
The wretched animal heaved forth such groans
Thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims
About his title, and hath sent for you
Another way I have to man my haggard,
They are free men, but I am banished.
By me they nothing gain an if I stay;
Finding yourself desired of such a person,
of my father's will. I am glad this parcel of wooers
Yea, and paid me richly for the practise of it.
Enter QUEEN KATHARINE and her Women, as at work
Welcome, Mercade;
What would you say, if I should let you speak?
I will, sir.
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
restrained, captivated, bound.
Why seems it so particular with thee?
'Tis poor mad Tom.
Though we seemed dead, we did but sleep: advantage
More, sir, and worse. She did confess she had
And lay those honours on your high deserts.
I would they were in Afric both together;
I could give better comfort than you do.
Pray that their burthens may not fall this day,
From out the state of hellish misery!
It were enough to fright the realm of France:
But clay and clay differs in dignity,
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire;'
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
Deny us for our good; so find we profit
wonderful! and yet again wonderful, and after that,
Then in dumb silence will I bury mine,
Or that persuasion could but thus convince me,
And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?
reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the
Madam, I shall.
If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
Thy father hath.
third, if he fight longer than he sees reason, I'll
In his behalf.
And even that power which gave me first my oath
Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and
From simple sources, and great seas have dried
Sirs, strive no more: such wither'd herbs as these
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge,
If you will now unite in your complaints,
You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
is sometime afeared she will do a desperate outrage
person; and much please the absent duke, if
You are welcome, sir: adieu.
No: know the gallant monarch is in arms
Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood
And does not Toby take you a blow o' the lips then?
Exeunt
Upon the life of this thrice-famed duke.
Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart:
A mark so bloody on the business, but
for I was told you were in a consumption.
Speak of Mortimer!
Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace
Of their breath only!
Welcome! one mess is like to be your cheer:
This is the end of the charge:--you, constable, are
But sorrow, that is couch'd in seeming gladness,
My father's love is enough to honour him: enough!
Toward heaven, to pardon blood; and I have built
This sight would make him do a desperate turn,
gown; I am withered like an old apple-john. Well,
A very reverent body; ay, such a one as a man may
hear me call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me
Where in the purlieus of this forest stands
world but I, and I am sunburnt; I may sit in a
And basely put it up without revenge?
And so, good night.
Grew shameless-desperate; open'd, in despite
Else, surely, his had equall'd.
I weigh it lightly, were it heavier.
As to thy friends; for when did friendship take
Marking the embarked traders on the flood,
Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back;
With them he enters; who, upon the sudden,
My lord?
done, let the law go whistle: I warrant you.
Most venerable worth, did I devotion.
In the adventure of this perilous day.
And mark'd you both and for you both did blush:
Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds,
Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves,
I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
Name her not now, sir; she's a deadly theme.
would go thither; so, indeed, all disquiet, horror
To make a recordation to my soul
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
No, faith, I'll not stay a jot longer.
Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon;
He stretch'd him, and, with one hand on his dagger,
Alive again? then show me where he is:
Enter OBERON and squeezes the flower on TITANIA's eyelids
We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;
Peace be with Burgundy!
Exeunt LYSANDER and DEMETRIUS
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
Now she sharpens: well said, whetstone!
Or lay these bones in an unworthy urn,
In cruelty will I seek out my fame.
Some comet or unusual prodigy?
Enter ANTONIO and PANTHINO
Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
Madam, his majesty doth call for you,
I pray thee, cease thy counsel,
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
The play may pass, if they be still and willing,
You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?
That hath dishonour'd Gloucester's honest name.
Whether the three Worthies shall come in or no.
For to seek my mother!
Cassio came hither: I shifted him away,
stark spoiled with the staggers, begnawn with the
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
To send it me.
I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.
But death hath snatch'd my husband from mine arms,
Prosper our colours in this dangerous fight!
I have no more to reckon, he to spend.
The Prince of Wales from such a field as this,
Of all men else I have avoided thee:
With quiet hours; for I do protest,
Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.
Meeting were bare without it.
If I sent him word again 'it was not well cut,' he
from my snow-white pen the ebon-coloured ink, which
By him not ruin'd? then is he the ground
no more women but Fulvia, then had you indeed a cut,
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood,
the lunatic.
Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man, and young
Her name is Portia, nothing undervalued
As I have to be hurt. O gull! O dolt!
it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
Exit
Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier;
demand that truly which thou wouldst truly know.
Fie, fie on all tired jades, on all mad masters, and
Trouble yourselves no further: pray you, hasten
Resume that spirit, when you were wont to say,
Enter two Senators and Tribunes
chamber matter of it: if he were twenty Sir John
Hath ta'en your part; to have so much to do
Many a man would take you at your word,
Even by the rule of that philosophy
of his act.
Which only lives but by the death of faith,
And yet she'll kneel and pray; I have seen her do't.
In thy not chiding, for she was as tender
And keep their impious turbans on, without
Than e'er the coward hand of France can win:
Ay, with all my heart,
Then you will bring the chain to her yourself?
It is meat and drink to me to see a clown: by my
Will have it so. On, lord; we'll follow you.
by the figure, and such daubery as this is, beyond
Shall then be his, and like a vine grow to him:
thou art king? and resolution thus fobbed as it is
With four or five most vile and ragged foils,
Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land!
more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. 'Bless you, friar.
be it spoken. I should quickly leap into a wife.
God amend us, God amend! we are much out o' the way.
As I in duty love my king and country!
After your dire-lamenting elegies,
Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
purse; follow thou the wars; defeat thy favour with
She were an excellent wife for Benedict.
her, being ever from their cradles bred together,
Messina, and one that knows the law, go to; and a
His lordship knows me well, and loves me well.
the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, but this answer will not serve.
Make much of him, my lords, for this is he
Exit
To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb
Together sung 'Te Deum.' So she parted,
Where dwell you, pretty youth?
well; but civil count, civil as an orange, and
Marry, is't.
Who's there? speak, ho! speak quickly, or I shoot.
To what I ask you.
That sticks on filthy deeds.
I, that am honest; I, that hold it sin
These should be hours for necessities,
To say if that the bastard boys of York
I lay me down a little while to breathe;
They smile at me that shortly shall be dead.
Cassio shall have my place. And, sir, tonight,
Do you see this? Look on her, look, her lips,
A whole one, I.
I am the provost. What's your will, good friar?
I will seek out Falstaff.
So near the emperor's palace dare you draw,
For I spake to you for your comfort; did desire you
Then judge, great lords, if I have done amiss;
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not;
Marry, sir, we'll bring you to Windsor, to one
DON
Whisper the spirits of thine enemies
My age was never tainted with such shame.
I have persuaded him the youth's a devil.
What wicked and dissembling glass of mine
By day's approach look to be visited.
How is that?
What, are there but three?
As you from crimes would pardon'd be,
Speak.
Those many had not dared to do that evil,
Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
And yet I am sure you are not satisfied
And either we or they must lower lie.
Then give my charge up to Sir Nicholas Vaux,
May fall to match you with her country forms
Trail your steel pikes. Though in this city he
not there for the goose.
We have done our obsequies: come, lay him down.
ACT V
'Jockey of Norfolk, be not too bold,
remembrance, be at accord.
Will your grace command me any service to the
pack: 'Via!' says the fiend; 'away!' says the
How often have I tempted Suffolk's tongue,
companion, and he steals it.
I warrant your honour.
He holds her by the hand, silent
Your mightiness on both parts best can witness.
Exeunt
None but the fool; who labours to out-jest
I have kept it myself; and see how he goes about to abuse me!
Limehouse, their dear brothers, are able to endure.
In Ephesus I am but two hours old,
No; let him die, in that he is a fox,
As had she studied to misuse me so.
And himself. Not I,
Shall be my recreation: so long as nature
The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
Good morrow to your worship.
And what is mine my love shall render him.
O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
That, indeed, Sir John, is my business.
Ha! let me see: ay, give it me, it's mine:
Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
For what we know must be and is as common
Thus men may grow wiser every day: it is the first
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night,
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
If your honour judge it meet, I will place you
To her allowing husband!
Is the king's hand and tongue; and who dare speak
he wants money.
And whatsoever cunning fiend it was
Or else dries up; to be discarded thence!
March on, march on, since we are up in arms;
On his behalf.
Your reason?
Uncertain way of gain! But I am in
you: of her I am to speak.
Let's part the word.
And thus she means, videlicet:--
Has been told so; and he says, he'll stand at your
I your servant,
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
When Fortune in her shift and change of mood
Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!
O, here is
occasion will rob you of a great deal of patience:
And you, my sovereign lady, with the rest,
Their medicinal gum. Set you down this;
If to come hither you have measured miles,
mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on, leaving
To his grand sea.
For my prosperity!
And day by day I'll do this heavy task,
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
Come, enter with us. Ladies, you deserve
Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband:
You do unbend your noble strength, to think
The special watchmen of our English weal,
If she'ld do the deed of darkness, thou wouldst say.
And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
As willingly do I the same resign
Exit
[Rising]  My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
And all your southern gentlemen in arms
The street should see as she walk'd overhead.
Again possess her corpse, and on this stage,
To bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else,
matter. I am given, sir, secretly to understand
All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?
Sleeps
When you do take the means whereby I live.
so God keep your worship!
Darest thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?
king's sake, he were living! I think it would be
Most true, if ever truth were pregnant by
That they of Rome are entered in our counsels
like smell; a kind of not of the newest Poor-
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
Still did I tell him it was vile and bad.
Farewell: our countrymen are gone and fled,
Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
fetch thee with a wanion.
Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus:
Cut my heart in sums.
foot, you shall see, as I have said, great
that pass. Peter Simple, you say your name is?
whence you had it.
The wandering prince and Dido once enjoy'd,
Return those duties back as are right fit,
Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me;
With as big heart as thou. Do as thou list
So angle we for Beatrice; who even now
Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice?
Go to him, madam, speak to him:
A! that's a foul fault.
honest witnesses: If this be not that you look for,
SCENE I. Forres. The palace.
stratagem.
Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Bretagne,
royal, if thou darest not stand for ten shillings.
Enter BUCKINGHAM
Where, from thy sight, I should be raging mad,
Hath he excepted most against my love.
And at the port expect you.
'Tis known before; our preparation stands
It was much like an argument that fell out last
Which I denying, they fell sick and died;
Do even drag me homeward: which to hinder
Our purposes God justly hath discover'd;
You are a young huntsman, Marcus; let it alone;
When she shall challenge this, you will reject her.
And so tell your master.
He wrought upon her.
My utmost skill in his recovery, Provided
sigh till he come.
And out of question so it is sometimes,
I pray you, turn the key and keep our counsel.
Yet I alone, alone do me oppose
And future ages groan for this foul act;
Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
I was adopted heir by his consent:
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
make not this cheat bring out another and the
And he's indicted falsely.
Before the game is afoot, thou still let'st slip.
Your business of the world hath so an end,
I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
Hang thou there upon the tomb,
Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,
With his good will and thy good company,
This hath some seeming.
And he shall our commission bring to you;
And sits as one new-risen from a dream.
She is young and apt:
he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him
northerly.
Here comes a member of the commonwealth.
And soundly too: your houses!
Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke,--
Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
many of the rich are damned: but, if I may have
I cannot speak, nor think
As my mother was, the first hour I was born.
In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living
Well, on: Mistress Ford, you say,--
He's hearing of a cause; he will come straight
They prepare to play
Confess, confess, hath he not hit you here?
we go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love?
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
Began to water. Is thy master coming?
I will lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring,
In the due reverence of a sacred vow
We were not born to sue, but to command;
He'll so awake as she in fury shall
How is't, Laertes?
I am his king, and he should bow his knee;
I am sworn,
After you first forswore it on the mart:
Not with the empty hollowness, but weight:
Where my stomach finds meat; or, rather, where I eat
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond.
A soldier to thy purpose.
In life's uncertain voyage, I will some kindness do them:
And will, no doubt, be found.
Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends
Ay, that is study's godlike recompense.
5. Mayor of London, bearing the mace. Then
And I for such like petty crimes as these,
Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it,
Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains,
Lo, here in one line is his name twice writ,
Nay: in that you are astray, 'twere best pound you.
Nor will you not tell me who you are?
To justice, continence and nobility;
And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset,
Baited like eagles having lately bathed;
duck, I'll be sworn.
How shall this bisson multitude digest
And after-dinner's breath.
Out of the pain you suffer'd, gave no ear to't.
That I am desperate of obtaining her.
Moves in this lip! to the dumbness of the gesture
Come, come, my boy; we will to sanctuary.
Or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard.
Thou know'st, being stopp'd, impatiently doth rage;
What, frighted with false fire!
Enter a Messenger
O my good lord, when I was like this maid,
Climbing my walls in spite of me the owner,
You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy.
sighing and grief! it blows a man up like a
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me,
make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion.
And who is England's king but great York's heir?
Sir Thomas,
For by that name as oft as Lancaster
buy for a remuneration?
Nay more, while grace is saying, hood mine eyes
Where have you been these two days loitering?
Let me hear you speak farther. I have spirit to do
Tell thee, with speechless tongues and semblance pale,
That I would have spoke of:
Lucilius' Servant	Ha! is not that his steward muffled so?
Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard;
But only, with your patience, that we may
Omitting Suffolk's exile, my soul's treasure?
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
To say the truth, this fact was infamous
ACT II
name out of his heart, and turn him going.
As long as you or I yet he must die.
With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate
horribly in love with her. I may chance have some
Add an immortal title to your crown!
For what I have I need not to repeat;
Ay, or I'll cudgel him, and make him cry O!
Bethink you, father; for the difference
His sparking eyes, replete with wrathful fire,
Enter DESDEMONA, EMILIA, IAGO, RODERIGO, and Attendants
Let's before as he bids us: he was provided to do us good.
I'ld have you buy and sell so, so give alms,
Prithee, tell me one thing first.
Crested the world: his voice was propertied
Emilia run you to the citadel,
He was much fear'd by his physicians.
Why, get you gone: who is't that hinders you?
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
There is no cause: when you shall know your mistress
Preservers of my throne. Woe is my heart
knows no end of them. Well, that is the dowry of
Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose,
That minces virtue, and does shake the head
So he does indeed.
To SCARUS
He did inform the truth: but for our gentlemen,
Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house,
Thou mayst, thou shalt; I will not go with thee:
My scars can witness, dumb although they are,
Destroy what lies before 'em.
Sir, do you know me?
With cautelous baits and practise.
it, is my mother, and this my father; a vengeance
I'll present myself. Peace to the lords of Tyre!
Question your grace the late ambassadors,
Exeunt
towards her.
foolish sapling, and must be bowed as I would have
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
A thousand pieces!
With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes;
Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume
my master.
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek,
To play till doomsday. Bring our crown and all.
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
You say he is so fell.
I robb'd his wound of it; behold it stain'd
Why then defy each other and pell-mell
Was guilty of it. Farewell worthy lord!
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
By Jupiter, I had it from her arm.
His word was still,--Fie, foh, and fum,
O mother, mother!
Command, I mean, friend.
eight and nine is the hour, Master Brook.
Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
Send for him, good uncle.
Then let them anatomize Regan; see what breeds
So meet for this great errand. Please your ladyship
And after that trust to thee.
Many good morrows to my noble lord!
And the remainder mourning over them,
You're much deceived: in nothing am I changed
Is come into the field.
What's that?
Of years, of country, credit, every thing,
Quiet consummation have;
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
mightst have hit upon it here: the commonwealth of
Thou weepest to make them drink, Timon.
And might not be delivered to the world,
Is straightway calm'd and boarded with a pirate:
With words, fair looks and liberality?
But by example--O, a sin in war,
Have brought about the annual reckoning.
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
What do ye ask of me, my friend?
also, to smell out work for the other senses. I see
[Kneeling]
Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing,
Be brought against me at my trial-day!
you make grand preparation for a duke de Jamany: by
exercises than formerly he hath appeared.
This is he;
And well such losers may have leave to speak.
In these affairs to aid me with thy counsel.
Outsells them all; I love her therefore: but
Than the rich-jewel'd of Darius,
not an eagle's talon in the waist; I could have
But know not how it went. My second joy
I'll answer that.
Truly, I have him: but I would not be the party
Right joyful of your reformation.
After they heard young Arthur was alive?
Here's eight that must take hands
burying-place to all that do dwell in this house,
Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee?
offer them instances; which shall bear no less
These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
Say how I loved you, speak me fair in death;
Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake,
Be happy that my arms are out of use:
On, on, on, on, on! to the breach, to the breach!
Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand:
And that shall Claudio know; so shall the prince
And woo your own destruction.
That haunted us in our familiar paths:
The quality of her passion shall require,
Never go home; here starve we out the night.
Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
Have their free voices: Rome, the nurse of judgment,
And look you lay it in the praetor's chair,
Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond
Rome's royal mistress, mistress of my heart,
To see alike mine honour as their profits,
See where it comes! Behavior, what wert thou
My kind Antonio,
Those that would die or ere resist are grown
Which the base vulgar do call three.
Good aunt, stand up.
To say my mother's name was Thaisa?
The beauty of her person to the people.
A liberal hand: the hearts of old gave hands;
Our former hatred, so thrive I and mine!
What call you the carriages?
recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that
The rest, that love me, rise and follow me.
And made him to resign his crown perforce.
his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but I am
Of the duke only, 'gainst all other voice.
To make your house our Tower: you a brother of us,
I'll turn to sparks of fire.
He's both their parent, and he is their grave,
Take then thy bond, take thou thy pound of flesh;
Strive to be interess'd; what can you say to draw
Strikes life into my speech and shows much more
I'll give it, sir; and therefore spare my life.
Do execution on my flesh and blood.
not the man that he would gladly make show to the
The sands are number'd that make up my life;
Exit Gentleman
Rien puis? L'air et la feu.
Solicit for it straight.
wicked villain, despite of all grace.
I wonder how our princely father 'scaped,
I know not how it tastes; though it be dish'd
Hear the crier.
O Iago, the pity of it, Iago!
Nay, I'll conjure too.
So sweet is zealous contemplation.
He might have kept that glory to this day;
He went hence but now,
Is it your will? Speak, sir. Prepare my horses.
Oh, that deceit should steal such gentle shapes,
Spread further.
O, give me leave:
Exit
M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.
Three in Egypt
He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine;
And placed a quire of such enticing birds,
Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful;
How were I then uplifted! but, alas!
And,--prithee, lead me in:
And, as the president of my kingdom, will
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
I combat challenge of this latten bilbo.
Gracious Olivia,--
To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
If ever any grudge were lodged between us;
should prove the mother of fools. I have brought
So. What trade are you of, sir?
crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.
By guileful fair words peace may be obtain'd.
I will but spend a word here in the house,
Both noisome and infectious.
Lo, in this right hand, whose protection
As dreams are made on, and our little life
And all that are assembled in this place,
Exeunt
Such it seems
venture so.
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
are your parts: and I am to entreat you, request
And case thy reputation in thy tent;
Where is my brother Hector?
And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very
With knaves that smell of sweat: say this
Look, when I vow, I weep; and vows so born,
But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
Thou hast painfully discover'd: are his files
for my duty cannot be silent when I think your
On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage!
Fridays. He's not past it yet, and I say to thee,
Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and Troy
Exit
'Tis most true:
Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in
Condemning some to death, and some to exile;
What an exchange had this been without boot! What
'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well:
Which you are running here.
To Pepin or Clotharius, they keep state so.
him.
What 'tis you go about: to climb steep hills
Nay, that's certain:
And givest such sarcenet surety for thy oaths,
Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldest
Your distinction?
When I have said, cry 'woe!' the queen, the queen,
What like, offensive.
Is there scarce ask'd for who; and good men's lives
A Norman.
Shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar?
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
Will plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, against
Philip, what say'st thou to the cardinal?
Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats:
And over-joy of heart doth minister.
Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.
hanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,
therefore I'll hide me.
But we both obey,
the military discipline; that is the point.
And bear the palm for having bravely shed
A love-song, a love-song.
And writers say, as the most forward bud
Ay, madam, so you stumble not unheedfully.
An untimely ague
Nay, truly, sir, I could never say grace in all my life.
False to his bed! What is it to be false?
At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now
Just as you left them; all prisoners, sir,
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Of these supposed-evils, to give me leave,
But, for your son,--believe it, O, believe it,
How have you known the miseries of your father?
Enter CAPULET, PARIS, and Servant
And give more strength to that which hath too much,
Before a friend of this description
hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!
Most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
Go; I come, I come.
Hide not thy poison with such sugar'd words;
I hope you will consider what is spoke
We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
Using no other weapon but his name.
Ascends
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
and a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a
And let heaven
that ever the devil could have made you our delight?
Old John of Gaunt, time-honour'd Lancaster,
To link with him that were not lawful chosen.
Under some biting error.
He plies the duke at morning and at night,
in standing water, between boy and man. He is very
Only for praise: and praise we may afford
My grandam told me he was murdered there.
Must be fulfill'd, and I attend with patience.
Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house.
To be my child Cordelia.
Having his ear full of his airy fame,
Get thee hence; farewell.
O, yes, it doth; a thousand-fold it doth.
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
It is great morning. Come, away!--
Sort how it will, I shall have gold for all.
Some man or other must present Wall: and let him
O, I have read it: it is heresy. Have you no more to say?
Indeed! is't true?
Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
I am right glad that his health is well, sir: and
forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods and,
Enter SHALLOW
To enter publicly: him I'll desire
Do as I bid you; shut doors after you:
No, I am promised forth.
Will in his brinish bowels swallow him.
Hortensio; and I trow this is his house.
Therefore the office is indifferent,
But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all;
but upon my mended judgment--if I offend not to say
Her coronation. Katharine no more
But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them,--
My Lord of York, I promise you, the king
If thou but frown on me, or stir thy foot,
That could have better sew'd than Philomel.
Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite;
That will I.
Mistrust of good success hath done this deed.
from his mad humour of love to a living humour of
I am sorry, madam, I have hurt your kinsman:
Yet filed with my abilities: mine own ends
Exeunt
Such a nut is Rosalind.
And with his arms outstretch'd, as he would fly,
Shame and eternal shame, nothing but shame!
I would, therefore, my sister had had no name, sir.
Has a new master: get a new man.
Of the king's look's, hath a heart that is not
And will with all expedience charge on us.
Hold you there: farewell.
For flattery is the bellows blows up sin;
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both
My dukedom of thee, which perforce, I know,
Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus
nothing but the reward of a villain.
Ay, gentle Thurio: for you know that love
The best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst
What things in the world canst thou nearest compare
O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
When yet you were in place and in account
Those prisoners in your highness' name demanded,
For her relapse is mortal. Come, come;
To see this business. To-morrow next
Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand--
As little joy may you suppose in me.
Twice being  [by the people chosen]  censor,
What is the trust or strength of foolish man?
I am sure the duke
Must render up myself.
believe your majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek
And, Rivers, so were you. Was not your husband
Not in deed, madam; for I can do nothing
O dainty duck! O dear!
Richer than that which four successive kings
Is that she will not add to her damnation
No, indeed, my lord.
crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to
I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief,
Enter ROSALIND
Who, when my heart, all mad with misery,
To the first giver.'
He shall as soon read in the eyes of others
I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard,
Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.
I have no brother, I am like no brother;
Opinion that so sticks on Marcius shall
Exeunt
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
Perplex'd in all. The heavens still must work.
Nay, this shall not hedge us out: we'll hear you
Within this wooden O the very casques
What hath befall'n of them and thee till now.
For that's the golden mark I seek to hit:
great, or the mighty, or the huge, or the
Like beasts which you shun beastly, and may save,
Unless thou say 'Prince Pericles is dead.'
Come, you are too severe a moraler: as the time,
Seest thou this letter? take it up, I pray thee,
We shall be blest to do, if he remember
Indeed your drums, being beaten, will cry out;
Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
France, thou shalt rue this treason with thy tears,
If aught within that little seeming substance,
And she not hear of it?
What sayest thou?
Are hated most of those they did deceive,
How now, my lord!
To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.
If any born at Ephesus be seen
Carried herself towards me.
necessary for a cut-purse; a good nose is requisite
At whose conception, till Lucina reign'd,
Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter?
I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as
Enter ARIEL
is more, pensioners; but, I warrant you, all is one with her.
You depend upon a noble gentleman; I must needs
Were it not glory that we more affected
of bastard in the Half-Moon,' or so. But, Ned, to
Those that slew thy virgin knight;
d'Anglois vitement. Comment appelez-vous les ongles?
Put up your swords.
Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness,
That the probation bear no hinge nor loop
Exeunt
To quell the rebels and their complices.
the hearing.
Who then conceiving did in eaning time
Base inclination and the start of spleen
Enter a Messenger, hastily
impossible places. Though what I am I cannot avoid,
Have you forgot me?
Than yours, my lord.
For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long.
I will go meet the ladies. This Volumnia
No, not a man comes for redress of thee;
me in heaven, because I am a Jew's daughter: and he
And, in advantage lingering, looks for rescue,
God save King Harry, unking'd Richard says,
Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear:
To rid us of the fear we have of him.
It rejoices me, that I hope I shall see him ere I
What comfort to this great decay may come
Come on, sir.
Your hearts will throb and weep to hear him speak.
Troilus will not come far behind him: let them take
And here's a lord,--come knights from east to west,
If Cassius might have ruled.
By rushing in their houses, bearing thence
Now fair befall your mask!
Is a' not? it does a man's heart good. Look you
I can add colours to the chameleon,
'thus I would teach a dog.' I was sent to deliver
Long live Edward the Fourth!
Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff
OF EPHESUS
And more such days as these to us befall!
and let me desire to know how you find Claudio
you flout old ends any further, examine your
The note lies in's throat, if he say I said so.
Which we have not done neither: that, I fear,
Already smokes about the burning crest
To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's,
For he is nothing but a mighty lord.
A second hope, as fairly built as Hector.
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
I hate ingratitude more in a man
And of the paste a coffin I will rear
Till I have set a glory to this hand,
To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear
And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
And see you read no other lectures to her:
all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor;' by which title,
to-day at bowls I'll win to-night of him. Come, go.
My lord?
I will subscribe--gentle adieus and greetings;
For our case is as theirs.
Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,
Ratcliff, about the mid of night come to my tent
This gentleman of mine hath served me long:
Because you are not of our quality,
And this same needy man must sell it me.
There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my
My lord, my lord,
away, away! if you will measure your lubber's
Judge when you hear. But, soft! what nymphs are these?
DON
So went to bed; where eagerly his sickness
Or seek for rule, supremacy and sway,
And William de la Pole, first duke of Suffolk.
For he that holds his kingdom holds the law;
And stolen my love's heart from him?
Margaret shall now be queen, and rule the king;
night, where each of us fell in praise of our
So fun of valour that they smote the air
of his face sours ripe grapes: when he walks, he
Here comes your father: never make denial;
Do I curse thee?
Pox on't, I'll not meddle with him.
What's he approacheth boldly to our presence?
I thank thee for't: my shipwreck now's no ill,
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound;
What's pity?
If it were so, I might have let alone
My lord hath sent you this note; and by me this
But, fearing since how it might work, hath sent
And am right sorry that I must report ye
Look, if it please you, on this man condemn'd,
In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
SCENE IV. A camp in Wales.
For yet may England curse my wretched reign.
Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me,
her reasons, her master reasons, her prayers, her
Antony,
Am I that name, Iago?
The rarest of all women.
But never once again turn back and fly.
She is content to be at your command;
To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
I'll kiss thy foot; I'll swear myself thy subject.
Ay, my lord.
Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note;
Should many people, under two commands,
Lord, no; yet I love thee too. And while thou
Re-enter OTHELLO
And seize himself; I say not, slaughter him,
Present mirth hath present laughter;
But what he did being childish?
My cousin's a fool, and thou art another: I'll wear
No foot shall stir.
cannot get, he may lawfully deal for--his wife's soul.
The incensing relics of it: let him approach,
Give me my boots, I say.
These are the city gates, the gates of Rouen,
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate
handkerchers: which makes much against my manhood,
But by and by rude fishermen of Corinth
Abortives, presages and tongues of heaven,
'Twas not my purpose, thus to beg a kiss:
Tell me how it came this night
He will do all in all as Hastings doth.
You shall not only take the sacrament
What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit;
Welcomed and settled to his own desire.
As ever you came of women, come in quickly to Sir
matters, but with awl. I am, indeed, sir, a surgeon
To what is count's man: count's master is of
Stay, sir king:
Go seek him there.
Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;
Collect them all together at my tent:
Therefore we meet not now. Then let me hear
This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
And do not know ourselves, when we hold rumour
That breath fame blows; that praise, sole sure,
I also wish it to you. I think this honourable lord
And that we find the slothful watch but weak,
Why, what, i' devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this?
Out, scab!
Enter two other Soldiers
Ay, that would be known. To the wars, my boy, to the wars!
Must it be great, and as his person's mighty,
For in this sin he is as deep as I.
My lord of Ely!
This health to Lepidus!
Tut, tut, thou art all ice, thy kindness freezeth:
rose; it was the death of him.
Are all call'd neat.--Still virginalling
Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy
Now is the woodcock near the gin.
Kneels
Here comes the Briton: let him be so entertained
He seems indifferent,
In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your foolery.
Follow her close; give her good watch,
Simple, plain Clarence! I do love thee so,
Helen and Hero hildings and harlots; Thisbe a grey
lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
I have a king's oath to the contrary.
Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him:
Yea, signior, and depart when you bid me.
I'll send my prayers with him.
O ho, O ho! would't had been done!
Upon my daughter's head! Tell me, mine own.
Let me embrace too. 'O heart,' as the goodly saying is,
With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
Causeless have laid disgraces on my head,
They shall be married to-morrow, and I will bid the
To rot itself with motion.
But, howsoever, strange and admirable.
French upbraided or abused in disdainful language;
been executed; I have stood on the pillory for geese
That ran through Caesar's bowels, search this bosom.
Your angry choler on your enemies.
That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack,
Nay, good my lord, be not angry.
is washed with them, but relents not.
Commanded me to follow, and attend
To draw with idle spiders' strings
worlds suffer,
To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' the wars
[Within]  What, ho! my lord, my lord!
delivered me, the knave constable had set me i' the
To more approved service and desert.
Believe me, she has had much wrong: lord cardinal,
withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops
Save that, for reverence to some alive,
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.
Good lords, conduct him to his regiment:
The same you are not, which, for your best ends,
And I challenge law: attorneys are denied me;
A matter from thee, and a birth indeed
the letters of Antigonus found with it which they
Tut, when struck'st thou one blow in the field?
For and a shrouding sheet:
Enter Servant
Heaven is my judge, not I for love and duty,
And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me,
Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece?
And these assume but valour's excrement
That were enwombed mine: 'tis often seen
To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts,
My lord, from head to foot.
A terrible childbed hast thou had, my dear;
You may go walk, and give me leave a while:
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons;
Nor thou within the compass of my curse.
Which Salique, as I said, 'twixt Elbe and Sala,
Monmouth caps; which, your majesty know, to this
I cannot instantly raise up the gross
Against what man thou comest, and what thy quarrel:
For the same handkerchief?
You see how all conditions, how all minds,
truly I think if all our wits were to issue out of
What say'st thou?
Demand.
Those that I reverence those I fear, the wise:
privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid
Alarums. They fight. EDMUND falls
I have strong reasons.
Enter DUKE, THURIO, and PROTEUS
All that is won and lost: give me a kiss;
The king's son have I landed by himself;
shall fall in love with Benedick; and I, with your
Upon whose grave thou vow'dst pure chastity.
To make conditions.
Madam, all joy befal your grace!
Good master, be content.
Proof enough to misuse the prince, to vex Claudio,
Tell me, thou fellow, is not France forsworn?
And here are to be answer'd. Tell me, my daughters,--
Hear from me, it shall be for thy good.
Perchance I will be there as soon as you.
Peace and content be here! Lord Timon! Timon!
The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown,
The hour that fools should ask.
Exit
You say he has been thrown in the rivers and has
Did the sea toss upon our shore this chest:
when she's fallen out with her husband. Your noble
Hadst thou done so,
Exeunt
Were a sufficient briber for his life.
b, spelt backward, with the horn on his head?
The dreadful motion of a murderous thought;
I think
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
O, the devil take such cozeners! God forgive me!
Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry; fill me a
And that be heir to his unhappiness!
Well, then, go you into hell?
A fire from heaven came and shrivell'd up
And thou hadst been set i' the stocks for that
So full of frost, of storm and cloudiness?
see your time, take her by the band, away with her
O Iago!
God save his majesty!
to be proud of thy bondage. I have a desire to hold
My wife, more careful for the latter-born,
Note him good Charmian, 'tis the man; but note him:
The which at Touraine, in Saint Katharine's
Of feather'd Cupid seal with wanton dullness
For all the world like cutler's poetry
Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
And call in question our necessities.
When I was wont to think no harm all night
Fie, wrangling queen!
And with this horrible object, from low farms,
be hanged at home: 'tis dangerous. Well, I perceive
To greet the warriors. Sweet Helen, I must woo you
swears he'll turn me away.
Almost, sir: heaven restore me! Would I were
Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put
Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot
Before you visit him, to make inquire
A fortnight and odd days.
Had I so lavish of my presence been,
No, I say.
him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he
This is strange to me.
Sirrah carrier, what time do you mean to come to London?
I'll muster up my friends, and meet your grace
Still live they and for ever may they last!
Cham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies,
O good old man, how well in thee appears
See, see; what a man you are now!
Ay, good my lord, and leave us to our fortune.
But I will use the axe.
Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
seem to scorch me up like a burning-glass! Here's
Had twenty years been made. This is a stem
If she cannot entreat, I can compel.
Is my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
Exeunt all but CARDINAL WOLSEY
Thy Caesar knighted me; my youth I spent
And what not done, that thou hast cause to rue,
more in your respect.
Bring him again: this Jack of Caesar's shall
The first departing of the king for Ireland.
Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee:
Anon, Francis? No, Francis; but to-morrow, Francis;
I know not.
Enter Poet, followed by LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, and LUCIUS
My tongue to such a pace:--'Look, sir, my wounds!
unskilful singer; he kept not time.
Used intercession to obtain a league,
We see each grain of gravel, I do know
The crown will find an heir: great Alexander
It was well done of you to take him at his word.
me.
than himself
And with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense
His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
For one being fear'd of all, now fearing one;
The lioness had torn some flesh away,
And all the other by-dependencies,
He is enfranchised and come to light:
Upon himself.
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak,
Ned, prithee, come out of that fat room, and lend me
What is the matter?
Stand in the plague of custom, and permit
From both, my lord. Bellario greets your grace.
La, la, la, la! 'nothing doubting,' says he? Alas,
The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
I have lived in such dishonour, that the gods
Die, perish! Might but my bending down
It cannot be; for when I parted with him,
glad thou canst speak no better English; for, if
Our setting down before 't.
To this effect, before you were new crown'd,
But I will never be a truant, love,
Exeunt
That thou art so inhuman,--'twill not prove so;--
To-morrow shall you bear our full intent
That would be howl'd out in the desert air,
Despite his nice fence and his active practise,
To hurl at the beholders of my shame:
And as poor as Job?
that decerns you nearly.
Ay, sweet Rosalind.
Like labour with the rest, where the other instruments
[Aside]  O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at
Might in thy palace perish Margaret.
Christendom.
Than have seen this.
Now, sister, what's the comfort?
No noise, my lord; but needful conference
If, Tullus,
Now, by the world--
Bear hence this body and attend our will:
Against the French, that met them in their bent,
Embrace and love this man.
But we saw him dead.
What's the matter?
Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart,
I say, Amen, Gonzalo!
Ay.
If I mistake not, thou art Harry Monmouth.
You that will be less fearful than discreet,
LEONATUS.'
Exit
Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now.
Give us particulars of thy preservation;
I kiss'd thee ere I kill'd thee: no way but this;
Yea, from the table of my memory
For the Lord's tokens on you do I see.
He did solicit you in free contempt
Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
And look on their endeavour.
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
'Tis woful.
Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,
Give me thy hand
Into this chiefest thicket of the park.
Farewell, our brother.
your house.' He could be contented: why is he not,
With dignities becoming your estates.
Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense,
Out of the teeth of emulation.
With child, perhaps?
To be the pillage of a giglot wench:'
Exit
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest
And, hark! they shout for joy.
Besides this treasure for a fee,
Peace! Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.
Would buy this for a lie!
Part them; they are incensed.
With horns, as was Actaeon's; and the hounds
money. I tell you for good will, look you: you
I gin to be aweary of the sun,
'Tis but the boldness of his hand, haply, which his
Exit, guarded
Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
supply; who, having great and instant occasion to
With his mouth full of news.
to sit, have you not?
fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I
attentiveness wounded his daughter; till, from one
'Twas my duty, sir.
And not obedient to his honest will,
Good morrow, Ajax.
Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
But since you are a gentle convertite,
In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted,
come into any room in a tap-house, but I am drawn
Why, such and such; and the contents o' the story.
The cloyed will,
On your allegiance,
O peace, peace, peace! now, now.
in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.
Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
And yet he rides it out. Now please you wit.
No; it is not possible you should love the enemy of
As he in penance wander'd through the forest;
I leave you to your wisdom.
The bosom of my conscience, enter'd me,
Exit CASSIUS, with some of the Citizens. BRUTUS goes into the pulpit
When every thing doth make a gleeful boast?
Your wife, your son, these senators, the nobles;
no true traveller: you are more saucy with lords
For with a band of thirty thousand men
The Ladies turn their backs to him
Will you give horns, chaste lady? do not so.
Nay, tarry; I'll go along with thee
birth-day; and there are princes and knights come
Ay; is it not a language I speak?
For love is still most precious in itself;
praising myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is
I am call'd Dercetas;
And the right-valiant Banquo walk'd too late;
disposition.
The fingers of the powers above do tune
[Aside]
The king was weeping-ripe for a good word.
DON
Nor once deject the courage of our minds,
We two saw you four set on four and bound them, and
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
not have hit, I can watch you for telling how I took
It is but needful:
Cries 'Excellent! 'tis Agamemnon just.
Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man; that
I call upon thee.
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
Than pard or cat o' mountain.
Exit
Unless he live until he be a man.
She would sit still and weep.
I'll undertake to make thee Henry's queen,
O Jesu, my lord, my lord!
Enter TROILUS and CRESSIDA
Stand back, Lord Salisbury, stand back, I say;
suppers and sleeping-hours excepted: it is the
Exit
Fair be to you, my lord, and to all this fair
I will praise any man that will praise me; though it
way then to unfool me again? Set down the basket,
That you will be more mild and tractable.
from him, it shows to man the tailors of the earth;
if peradventure this be true. Go you and tell her of it.
To study fashions to adorn my body:
Drinks
His purpose meets you: 'twas to bring this Greek
SCENE III. Plain between the camps.
I'll to the doctor: he hath my good will,
'His garment!' Now the devil--
About a prophecy, which says that 'G'
Better ten thousand base-born Cades miscarry
If whilst I live she will be only mine.
female; or, for thy more sweet understanding, a
for, believe me, I hear the parson is no jester.
Is Cadwal mad?
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Madam, it is.
Which seems a little fouler than it is,
And thy no greater father.
brother's evil disposition made him seek his death;
O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
Enter SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
To snare the nimble marmoset; I'll bring thee
Brother, we shall. Go, uncle Exeter,
With the most noble bottom of our fleet,
I will endure, and I'll employ thee too:
how the young folks lay their heads together!
For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather;
My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon;
CLEOPATRA kneels
Enter BIANCA
To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs,
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  I think he means to beg a
'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs.
Enter FENTON
That play with all infirmities for gold
Seized on the realm, deposed the rightful king,
separation of their society, their encounters,
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.
How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown:
Between the king and Katharine?
Hast thou not kiss'd thy hand and held my stirrup?
If he should offer to choose, and choose the right
persuading me to it.
I sin in envying his nobility,
Romans, friends, followers, favorers of my right,
Enter CYMBELINE and Lords
Thy condemnation and thy death.
Now to that name my courage prove my title!
Upon the company you overtake?
signs of leaping-houses and the blessed sun himself
Be not afraid; she shall not harm thee, Helena.
More pity that the eagle should be mew'd,
For shallow draught and bulk unprizable;
And corn shall fly asunder: for, I know,
There is no crossing him in 's humour;
O, vengeance!
Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
Alarum within. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, with Attendants, meeting a bleeding Sergeant
Why, any thing:
I would not thy good deeds should from my lips
To me, should utter, with demure confidence
fain to hang you.
You pay a great deal too dear for what's given freely.
Why do you wring your hands, and beat your breast,
When that the watery palate tastes indeed
I know his noble nature--not to let
blank verse, why, they were never so truly turned
than the master: if any where I have them, 'tis by
The mayor and all his brethren in best sort,
So to enforce or qualify the laws
Thorough the streets of Rome?
May through the centre creep and so displease
Your queen and I are devils: yet go on;
Now I come to't my lord
I think not so.
Now, good angels
Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
I praise God for you, sir: your reasons at dinner
Room for Antony, most noble Antony.
I thank thee for that humour.
For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
The letter was not nice but full of charge
Have you had quiet guard?
are tasted, allow us as we prove; our head shall go
Enter POLONIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
horses ready?
Exit
pray, can you read any thing you see?
time: after your death you were better have a bad
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
As doth the blushing discontented sun
Got 'tween the lawful sheets.
Will you go, coz?
Nay, but regard him well.
But, O, it presses to my memory,
Thou'rt i' the right, girl; more o, that.
Will make but little for his benefit.
So under fortune, which you thought had been
The Volsces whom you serve, you might condemn us,
Put them in secret holds, both Barnardine and Claudio:
You should hear reason.
Will to my sense bend no licentious ear,
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
Surely, by all the glory you have won,
Yet have we some revenge. Let husbands know
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
For, whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs,
on one side.
O, now, let Richmond and Elizabeth,
For disobedience to your father's will,
Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that
If I thrive well, I'll visit thee again.
Be better suited:
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick;
there is such odds in the man. In pity of the
Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece
and says little; to fear judgment; to fight when I
Perhaps is but prolong'd: have patience and endure.
Of many a bold one; whose kinsmen have made suit
chin, and one of them is white.
My Lord Pandarus,--
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard.
Re-enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, MOTH, COSTARD, and others
And forced to drink their vapour.
Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
Some to the common pulpits, and cry out
And therefore, if you say no more than this,
Made scruple of his praise; and wager'd with him
And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
By interception which they dream not of.
Whom thou didst banish; and--which more may
Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel
And means to give you battle presently.
porridge after meat! I could live and die i' the
Bind the offender,
Twin-born with greatness, subject to the breath
Exit Servingman
Or we poor ghosts will cry
Awake, sir, awake; speak to us.
Henry King of England,  and c.
Let them go on;
Adieu, good neighbour.
Nay, but be wise: yet we see nothing done;
But 'banished' to kill me?--'banished'?
To have them recompensed as thought on.
All take hands.
The cause is in my will: I will not come;
That good effects may spring from words of love.
I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial,
His wife who wins me by that means I told you,
Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
By the white hand of my lady, he's a gallant prince.
With all religious strength of sacred vows;
The reverent care I bear unto my lord
I should not need, if you were gentle Brutus.
Which I would free, if I shall be condemn'd
Exit IRAS. A noise within
O, O, O,
The unviolated honour of your wife.
Outran my purpose; and I return'd the rather
to be delivered as far as Charing-cross.
That you are like to Sir Vincentio.
But they must blab--
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
Get thee gone:
Nor to no Roman else: so tell them, Publius.
[Within]  Let him walk from whence he came, lest he
Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep!
Of a strange nature is the suit you follow;
For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeased.
Well said, master; mum! and gaze your fill.
You fools of fortune, trencher-friends, time's flies,
Exeunt
virtue seek
Let's not meet her.
Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages:
And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
In any staining act.
There is my pledge;
all neighbouring languages; therefore we must every
me no service as a partisan I could not heave.
Conduct me to mine host: we love him highly,
What, madam! be dishonour'd openly,
way; old Windsor way, and every way but the town
The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt;
All there is thine.
This is the fruit of whoring. Prithee, Emilia,
She loved me well deliver'd it to me.
Drawing his sword
That hath in it no profit but the name.
But art thou not advised, he took some care
Foul wrinkled witch, what makest thou in my sight?
Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frize;
We'll answer.
Will hold at Windsor; so inform the lords:
And by these badges understand the king.
Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,
With such full licence as both truth and malice
And only that I stand for. I appeal
Why, then, to-morrow night; or Tuesday morn;
will change; 'twas wont to hold me but while one
Why give you me this shame?
The French king's sister: he shall marry her.
Or docks, or mallows.
So shall his father's wrongs be recompensed.
The general were put in mind of it.
Or, at the least, make them his enemies.
Do you confess the bond?
True.
Go, Cleomenes;
'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord,
Yet nature might have made me as these are,
Hear me, Sir Thomas: you're a gentleman
I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners and
Lord regent, I do greet your excellence
Exeunt
Dispatched! I'll make the best in Gloucestershire
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;
That are without him, as place, riches, favour,
[Advancing]     What is he whose grief
I'll see their trial first. Bring in the evidence.
And, knowing whom it was their hap to save,
For you are spell-stopp'd.
That had a court no bigger than this cave,
Away with him, I say! hang him with his pen and
Join with the Goths; and with revengeful war
'Tear him to pieces.' 'Do it presently.' 'He kill'd
I am he that is so love-shaked: I pray you tell me
Alas, poor heart, that kiss is comfortless
queen's picture. Come, follow us: we'll be thy
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
gallantry of Troy: I  would fain have armed to-day,
bloody succeeding. My master!
Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds
That presently you take our way for home;
But now I know thy mind; thou dost suspect
As strange as the thing I know not. It were as
At thy choice, then:
Marry. sir, by many a wind-instrument that I know.
Consent upon the order of their fight,
Hark! more knocking.
To give my hand opposed against my heart
This man, lady, hath robbed many beasts of their
I shall discover all: I'll bring thee word
she, that this house, if it be not a bawd's house,
And not bewray thy treason with a blush?
Young Ferdinand, whom they suppose is drown'd,
Of a snail?
Yes, other men have ill luck too: Antonio, as I
What dost you mean by this?
and nod at every man.
Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.
Where is my lord the king?
And told me that by water I should die:
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
The one in motley here,
When I do name him, let it be thy part
I crave fit disposition for my wife.
Alarum. Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Of one persuaded well of--
I must be married to my brother's daughter,
more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more
Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind:
Last, that the Lady Anne,
The lights burn blue. It is now dead midnight.
You fled for vantage, everyone will swear;
But for containing fire to harm mine eye.
And therefore take the present time,
Who shall ask it?
Of angry eyes, not comforted to live,
Fulvia!
Suggestions are to other as to me;
Because thou hast no face.
And men have lost their reason. Bear with me;
Against acquaintance, kindred and allies:
With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself,
Who taught you this?
Success and conquest to attend on us.
Save those to God, that run before our business.
Art thou god to shepherd turn'd,
uncapable of pity, void and empty
'Twould drink the cup and all.
For sure, he fills it up with great ability,
Which you denied me: was that done like Cassius?
Only a show or two, and so agree
All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, thane of Cawdor!
They have o'erlook'd me and divided me;
Come, come, you mock me; this is not the way
And you, my gentle knight, give me your thoughts:
For he fears none.
Of our great quell?
The fortune of the day quite turn'd from him,
With casted slough and fresh legerity.
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
Opens the gate
Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain
In me to lose.
Where?
face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you
the place, and the condition of this country
Well, I'll make excuse.
Seems he a dove? his feathers are but borrowed,
Enter SOMERSET, with his army; a Captain of TALBOT's with him
Be pale: I beg but leave to air this jewel; see!
What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor;
What shall de honest man do in my closet? dere is
rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a
If you be well pleased with this
An I cannot, another can.
The which immediacy may well stand up,
Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which
For this will out, and here I must not stay.
Yet again! what do you here? Shall we give o'er
They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in
Whom I with all the office of my heart
At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
I hold dear as my finger; 'tis part of it.
SCENE I. Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
Fie on thee! I can tell what thou wouldst do.
I will not take her on gift of any man.
To take thy life from thee.
Let it be so. Sir John,
And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure.
acquaintance, I will be point-devise the very man.
If Marcius should be join'd with Volscians,--
numbers. Away I go. They say there is divinity in
Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends,
You are most welcome home.
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
By this time, had the king permitted us,
Then, gentle brother, get you in again;
By night frequents my house. I am a man
Hail to your lordship!
Conjectural marriages; making parties strong
And all those friends that deign to follow me.
That could be found.
Almost afraid to know itself. It cannot
Take special care my greetings be deliver'd.
That one day bloom'd and fruitful were the next.
'Tis well you offer it behind her back;
more tavern-bills; which are often the sadness of
made in the unchaste composition.
at the temple, and there, before the whole
I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
though? C ourage! As horns are odious, they are
Not too hot:
Which if you shall refuse, when I am dead,
Against the churches; though the yesty waves
Count wisdom as no member of the war,
This day, great duke, she shut the doors upon me,
Must bide the touch; for, sir, at Shrewsbury,
Thou losest thy old smell.
You have a Trojan prisoner, call'd Antenor,
Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the
More pleasant, pithy and effectual,
Enter LADY MACDUFF, her Son, and ROSS
Was kinder to his father than my daughters
Hark, how these instruments summon to supper!
But, soft! methinks I do digress too much,
Holding due course to Harfleur. Follow, follow:
there's all the love they bear us.
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
Then by your side no bed-room me deny;
Rend off thy silver hair, thy other hand
Why do they run away? this is a knavery of them to
'Tis pitiful; but yet Iago knows
And in my voice most welcome shall you be.
Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.
Was brow-bound with the oak. His pupil age
And every lovely organ of her life
Enter TALBOT, with trump and drum
my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no fish,
And on a safer judgment all revoke
betwixt my uncle and one of the emperial's men.
'Twas of his nephew Proteus, your son.
What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?
And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.
If we do meet again, why, we shall smile;
From that great face of war, whose several ranges
Let fame, that all hunt after in their lives,
[Aside to MENAS]  Go hang, sir, hang! Tell me of
Ay, by these gloves, did he, or I would I might
All will be ours, now bloody Talbot's slain.
Of hell would not in reputation change:
short daughter.
Cassio, my lord, hath kill'd a young Venetian
Since they do better thee in their command.
All 'long of this vile traitor Somerset.
speaker is but a prater; a rhyme is but a ballad. A
Be absolute for death; either death or life
Pray, speak what has happen'd.
If each of you should take this course, how many
But yet be true.
What, stain'd with blood!
Proteus, I thank thee for thine honest care;
The worst of all her scholars, my good lord.
and Gratii, two hundred and fifty each; mine own
To hide thee from prevention.
To what end, my lord?
A punishment or trial? Yes; no wonder,
Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth;
He is married?
My spirit and my place have in them power
FRIAR PETER and ISABELLA come forward
And common good to all, made one of them.
thee to thy uncle's.
No.
Does reason our petition with more strength
undermine you and blow you up.
ANTIPHOLUS
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Good heart, what grace hast thou, thus to reprove
O, bless me here with thy victorious hand,
They were villains, murderers: the will! read the will.
Say that I wish he never find more cause
A charitable duty of my order.
Among the nettles at the elder-tree
that I wear, owe no man hate, envy no man's
Thou art Hermione; or rather, thou art she
To you they have show'd some truth.
They have bereft; and do pronounce by me:
hats and most courteous feathers, which bow the head
That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
His hands abroad display'd, as one that grasp'd
my trot, dere is no duke dat the court is know to
Should I repent me: but once put out thy light,
Exit
Biron, read it over.
I love them as they weigh.
To bear him easily hence!
that, commend me to the court where your lady is,
Norfolk, we must have knocks; ha! must we not?
Striving to make an ugly deed look fair:
Where these two Christian armies might combine
the windy side of care. My cousin tells him in his
Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
That last is Biron, the merry madcap lord:
Unshaked of motion: and that I am he,
Who am myself attach'd with weariness,
Do.
Wherefore? for my dinner: I have not dined to-day.
Since the exile of Posthumus, most retired
To slay his daughter with his own right hand,
Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
I speak not this as doubting any here
Show me the way of yielding.
To what, I pray?
Or when you waked, so waked as if you slept.
Till you have done your business in the city:
Upon the brook that brawls along this wood:
So, two more already.
I have forgiven and forgotten all;
Good night to every one.
Here is a lady that wants breathing too:
Exeunt
He gave his nose and took't away again;
Of what we blame him for.
That it may stand till the perpetual doom,
You shall not need to fear me.
And let the emperor dandle him for his own.
Or can conceal his hunger till he famish?
'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
And with a green and yellow melancholy
he's a better woodman than thou takest him for.
Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline.
He were an excellent man that were made just in the
But I must tell you, now my thoughts revolt
Who therewith angry, when it next came there,
Here, my lord.
Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife,
Most putrefied core, so fair without,
If on the first, how heinous e'er it be,
Away, I do beseech you, both away:
Lady Cressida. I come to speak with Paris from the
Burn like the mines of Sulphur. I did say so:
How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green!
Following the signs, woo'd but the sign of she.
Shake off the golden slumber of repose.
A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
When this was now a king, and now is clay?
sun-burning, that never looks in his glass for love
And tell fair Hero I am Claudio,
Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror,
By two of their most reverend senate, greet thee:
Forethought by heaven!
Afore me! it is so very very late,
Go your ways, and ask of Doctor Caius' house which
Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition:
transcendence: which should, indeed, give us a
Almost to acknowledge hers.
Strikes his breast hard, and anon he casts
And all the better is it for the maid:
My master, and my lord!
Nay, he can make obligations, and write court-hand.
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
Wherein I had no stroke of mischief in it?
I would have you.
I must not think there are
An alarum: excursions. BEDFORD, brought in sick  in a chair. Enter TALBOT and BURGUNDY without:  within JOAN LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, on the walls
And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,
Are they that I would have thee deal upon:
That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
Ha!
and yet am ready to famish! These five days have I
Sleeping or waking must I still prevail,
is here! I think our fellows are asleep.
Embracing
From all direction, purpose, course, intent:
Why, how are we censured?
The private wound is deepest: O time most accurst,
Exit
I should think this a gull, but that the
It is the bloody business which informs
How, with his banners and his well-paid ranks,
She shall, Lucentio. Come, gentlemen, let's go.
Exeunt
It pleased them to think me worthy of Pompion the
And let us two devise to bring him thither.
In winter with warm tears I'll melt the snow
But she tells to your highness simple truth!
In my green velvet coat, my dagger muzzled,
This life is most jolly.
I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt
contented to be there, in respect of the love I bear
true maid.
Appear in your impediment. For the dearth,
Exeunt Gentlemen
Go thou with her to the west end of the wood;
For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell,
Enter Musicians
Ah! sancta majestas, who would not buy thee dear?
Hear me yourself; for that which I must speak
calves'-guts, nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to
To cheque time broke in a disorder'd string;
Unless he take the course that you have done,
The Trojans' trumpet.
Be what they will, I heartily forgive 'em:
Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
Is't possible that my deserts to you
all one, if he be but one knave. He lives not now
Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our roses;
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--
How now, my hardy, stout resolved mates!
If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.
Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd.
And not be Richard that hath done all this.
And flesh his spirit in a warlike soil,
to a leash of drawers; and can call them all by
But I am troubled here with them myself;
New come from Padua.
The purpose I then follow'd. That I was he,
Grappling with him
Have more than thou showest,
My fortunes and my friends at stake required
So tell the pope, all reverence set apart
I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
Exeunt
Ah, Rome! Well, well; I made thee miserable
As he is subtle, and as prone to mischief
Observe his inclination in yourself.
How will he scorn! how will he spend his wit!
Well in her person I say I will not have you.
host, thine Ephesian, calls.
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
Think on the Tower and me: despair, and die!
What we took from them; which, for traffic's sake,
Lob down their heads, dropping the hides and hips,
What, pray you, became of Antigonus, that carried
Undaunted spirit in a dying breast!
That e'er received gift from him:
ANTIPHOLUS
[Sings]
Infer fair England's peace by this alliance.
And go the fools among.
Still waving, as the fits and stirs of 's mind
The most you sought was her promotion;
Dies
To me and to my aid the blest infusions
For Oberon is passing fell and wrath,
Now, for the love of Love and her soft hours,
Lastly, myself unkindly banished,
And therein do account myself well paid:
So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
Or ever, but in vizards, show their faces?
read thus: therefore perpend, my princess, and give ear.
If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.
[Within]	Lord Hamlet,--
Then leave him out.
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,
The salt in them is hot.
To Rome of our success. You, Titus Lartius,
The time to come.
If it be aught toward the general good,
footboy or a gentleman's lackey.
Farewell, my Hector, and my Troy's true hope.
And not relent, or not compassion him?
horse a drench,' says he; and answers 'Some
For I am that way going to temptation,
Hath faulty wander'd and irregular,
Re-enter PANDARUS
The day almost itself professes yours,
could disunite.
A thousand pound a year, annual support,
O, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit,
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
Do we not likewise see our learning there?
Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts
this, dies instantly; I have seen her die twenty
SCENE II. An ante-chamber in the palace.
Is empty on the back of Montague,--
Up in my heart; which I have given already,
Would I had known no more! but she must die,
And pawn mine honour for their safety: since
Your worth, your greatness and nobility.
Name Cressida and thy life shall be as safe
it into your pocket? the quality of nothing hath
Suppose within the girdle of these walls
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
As yet, to question you about your fortunes.
Lie graveless, till the flies and gnats of Nile
Besides this present instance of his rage,
Upon the pillow: hie thee, whiles I say
Tush, that was but his fancy, blame him not;
No.
Exeunt
[To EDMUND]  Then shall you go no further.
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
if something thou wilt swear to be believed,
In thy foul throat thou liest: Queen Margaret saw
What you will have it named, even that it is;
And were our father and this son like him,
life: which if I can save, so; if not, honour comes
Out of his envy's reach, I do oppose
butterfly: and when he caught it, he let it go
of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
conjure and raise devils, but I'll see some issue of
And climb the highest promontory top.
hoof is more musical than the pipe of Hermes.
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
His bleeding sword 'twixt England and fair France.
And for we think the eagle-winged pride
Were't not a shame, that whilst you live at jar,
Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly;
handsome fellow! Come, thou shalt go home, and
Or else, good night your vow!
us. When we banished him, we respected not them;
Things past redress are now with me past care.
abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on
Melting the darkness, so their rising senses
With slaughter's pencil, where revenge did paint
pair his nails, for they shall hang out for the
Such a house broke!
The enemy comes on in gallant show;
She bids me think how I have been forsworn
Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent,
Enter PUCK behind
So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle,
What traitor hears me, and says not amen?
Such as the daughter of Agenor had,
ACT II
Or I will throw thee from my care for ever
Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry,
Hence, then, and thank
varied, like a scholar at the least: but, sir, I
Upon my target three fair-shining suns.
These oracles are hardly attain'd,
And after many scorns, many foul taunts,
Upon old Brutus' statue: all this done,
A buzzing of a separation
And stand upon my common part with those
Lead off this ground; and let's make further search
Exit FENTON
I am a gentleman of a company.
not peep: an if thou darest,
are.
Well thought upon; I have it here about me.
I say, yea.
je m'estime heureux que je suis tombe entre les
Even for the loss of thee, having no more,
A cistern for scaled snakes! Go, get thee hence:
need none, so long as I live.
You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me:
The strong-wing'd Mercury should fetch thee up,
man as Orlando?
If I would say, 'Agrippa, be it so,'
That look'd upon't. Here comes the good Macduff.
I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
husband, if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
Next, if I be appointed for the place,
Let's see the penalty.
I feel this pin prick. Would I were assured
And uncle Worcester: a plague upon it!
That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
Ay, noble Titus; and resolved withal
Here is the scroll of every man's name, which is
falsely accused, the prince and Claudio mightily
ales and his cups; so also Harry Monmouth, being in
Had I but said, I would have kept my word,
And this same bias, this Commodity,
I do desire it.
He that commends me to mine own content
Ay, sooth; so humbled
Lifting his hand
Foretell the ending of mortality.
I will not be denied: sweet heart, look back.
that the wrestling might not go forward.
Men judge by the complexion of the sky
When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven;
ACT I
I know, in honour, O, that ever I
the meaning:
To-morrow is the joyful day, Audrey; to-morrow will
Andronicus himself did take it up.
That right in peace which here we urge in war,
the very stream of his life and the business he hath
Enter Clown, and PAROLLES, following
You do yourself mighty wrong, Master Ford.
No longer session hold upon my shame,
Can touch him further.
And on her virgin honour will not break it.
May we not get access to her, my lord?
The miserable change now at my end
Whom sometime I have laugh'd with: let your highness
All repetition: let him not ask our pardon;
as ancient writers do report, doth defile; so doth
out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen and hang me
His majesty bids you welcome. Make
My hate to Marcius: where I find him, were it
Do you not read some tokens of my son
Desire his jewels and this other's house:
Fly, to revenge my death when I am dead:
To TOUCHSTONE
To the descent and dust below thy foot,
A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
And those musicians that shall play to you
That 'once' I see by your good father's speed
Nay, I will consent to act any villany against him,
Enter YORK, and his army of Irish, with drum and colours
The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,
Please you, deliberate a day or two.
Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore!
But give your pigeons to the emperor:
Then I would you were so honest a man.
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
Marry, my uncle Clarence' angry ghost:
Here is a rural fellow
ANTIPHOLUS
I crave your pardon. Soon at five o'clock,
In this place we left them:
Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,
By thinking on fantastic summer's heat?
tell you, and is almost mature for the violent
out-paramoured the Turk: false of heart, light of
done cannot be undone.--To bed, to bed, to bed!
By nature proved an enemy to the flock,
meant, Captain Macmorris, peradventure I shall think
But thus condition'd: thou shalt build from men;
His body will I bear unto the king:
and there's my harvest-home.
[To POLIXENES]                  Sir, welcome:
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
And so most joyfully we take our leave.
But none can cure their harms by wailing them.
I do suspect thee very grievously.
Advise yourself.
And what said he?
My mortified spirit. Now bid me run,
You take a precipice for no leap of danger,
And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememberest
door, you would never dance again after a tabour and
Small curs are not regarded when they grin;
Let me my service tender on your lips.
Coventry with them, that's flat: nay, and the
To pluck away their power, as now at last
Meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall.
Drum sounds afar off
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And that my master slew him.
Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts;
'When he,' quoth she, 'shall split thy heart with sorrow,
Be it my wrong you are from me exempt,
And when please you to say so?
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, HENRY PERCY, and other Lords
Exit
To wake our peace, which in our country's cradle
To enjoy thy banish'd lord and this great land!
Beseech your honour
And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil
No, good Master Fenton.
Young Ned, for thee, thine uncles and myself
Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady.
To make such means for her as thou hast done
Hold here, take this: tell gentle Jessica
The vasty fields of France? or may we cram
And that my fainting words do warrant death;
So much misconstrued in his wantonness.
His uncle York; where I first bow'd my knee
I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill.
Who comes with him?
And hang me up in chains!
against me; he stands there, like a mortar-piece, to
Fair maid, is't thou wilt do these wondrous feats?
So 'twere not 'long of him; but being enter'd,
Exeunt PROCULEIUS and Soldiers
What kind o' man is he?
Their armours, that march'd hence so silver-bright,
We have always truly served you, and beseech you
That Timon cares not. But if be sack fair Athens,
Let us from it.
I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be
disposer is sick.
Even to the court, the heart, to the seat o' the brain;
Where is Nathaniel, Gregory, Philip?
Well,
Still ending at the arrival of an hour.
No matter what; he's poor, and that's revenge
three-and-twenty, or that youth would sleep out the
Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
Whereof we have ta'en good and good store, of all
Where great patricians shall attend and shrug,
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Presented thee more hideous than thou art.
Proud northern lord, Clifford of Cumberland,
With all their sixty, fly and turn the rudder:
Go you, sir, to the senators--
Which wash both heaven and hell; and thou, that hast
O mistress, mistress, shift and save yourself!
But such is the infection of the time,
[Reads]  Till I have no wife I have nothing in France.
And here have I the daintiness of ear
He dies to me again when talk'd of: sure,
How now! what hath befall'n?
Let be, let be.
Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
And give us notice of his inclination:
And justify you traitors: at this time
Bestow this place on us a little while.
Be copy now to men of grosser blood,
Sirrah, I say, forbear. Friend Valentine, a word.
There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
too, and ambiguities.
There's order given for her coronation:
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
Thy tears would wash this cold congealed blood
I' the virtue of your daughter: one being dead,
She will taste as like this as a crab does to a
chaste mistress the moon, under whose countenance we steal.
Lest in our need he might infect another
Coursed one another down his innocent nose
So indeed I did.
stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
behalf as you have uttered words in your own, you
If you advise it.
Sits in a foggy cloud, and stays for me.
Re-enter SNOUT
Sir, no; his indignation derives itself out of a
O, dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more.
For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love,
bottle of sack: our soldiers shall march through;
Wide o' the bow hand! i' faith, your hand is out.
With five times so much conversation, I should get
Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
O boy, thy father gave thee life too soon,
reports for me.
But how or in what place I do not know.
Being Leonatus, doth import so much.
another thing: we must have a wall in the great
I am possess'd of: 'tis exactly valued;
Go fetch fire.
To do I know not what: but it sufficeth
We met by chance; you did not find me here.
Out of your best advice.
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide!
As my young mistress' dog. Now, my sick fool Roderigo,
I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.
Gone, my good lord.
defeated the law and outrun native punishment,
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That still would manage those authorities
An you love me, let's do't: I am dog at a catch.
Till painful study shall outwear three years,
too short,
To Verona.
Here's goodly work!
have bad dreams.
What canst thou say but will perplex thee more,
O Brakenbury, I have done those things,
Measures my husband's sorrow by his woe:
But soft, but see, or rather do not see,
Which leaves itself: to the sea-side straightway:
Now are they come.
Et le coude?
Did put the yoke upon 's; which to shake off
Together with his mangled Myrmidons,
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say
We will awake him and be sure of him.
Made me to quit the house.
honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.
See! Antony, that revels long o' nights,
Master lieutenant, now that God and friends
Fled this way, sir. When by no means he could--
A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
None in the world; but return with an invention and
We will bestow you in some better place,
Upon the fortune of this present year:
Cast her fair eyes to heaven and pray'd devoutly.
Which, to preserve mine honour, I'll perform.
Which humbleness may drive unto a fine.
You may be pleased to catch at mine intent
Varro's Servant	What is a whoremaster, fool?
If he see aught in you that makes him like,
What heart receives from hence the conquering part,
Pursued my life.
Although I think 'twas in another sense;
He wills you, in the name of God Almighty,
the same abundance as your good fortunes are: and
O, no! thou diest, though I the sicker be.
SCENE III. The same. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
men would carry coals. They would have me as
than the staple of his argument. I abhor such
To bid me trudge:
Warwick, my son, the comfort of my age,
I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him,
And it pierces and sharpens the stomach. Come,
Where as thou know'st, against the face of death,
Up once again; put spirit in the French:
Allow obedience, if yourselves are old,
He is as like thee as a man may be,
O, meaning you. I will go learn more of it.
The false revolting Normans thorough thee
Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
I, madam?
is infinite and the execution confined, that the
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
Bar Harry England, that sweeps through our land
Exeunt
In any case, the offer of the king.
Yonder he is coming, this way, Sir Hugh.
And drown'd.
But dead, thy kingdom cannot buy my breath.
A very fine one: O, how he loves Caesar!
Here, so please you.
SCENE III. The Council-Chamber.
And find it out by proclamation:
What, hast not thou full often struck a doe,
Fear no more the frown o' the great;
Unless you be possess'd with devilish spirits,
With honour, as in war, since that to both
The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
You hear my spell is lawful: do not shun her
I love thee so, that, maugre all thy pride,
Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
Is added to her wounds: I think withal
cunning match have you made with this jest of the
Therefore, so please thee to return with us
desired employment, BIRON.' Sir Nathaniel, this
In rage deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.
Or what you will command me will I do,
If to my sword his fate be not the glory,
Enter a Sailor
Enter LORENZO
And take her by the hand, whose worth and honesty
And so, God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.
That bears the name of life? Yet in this life
Who loved her so, that, speaking of her foulness,
And fall of many kings. But fear not yet
They dance! they are mad women.
And not of any challenge of desert,
The day is yours.
Or live in peace abandon'd and despised!
goodness, that the dissolution of it must cure it:
Must yield to such inevitable shame
To fright you thus, methinks, I am too savage;
De nails. Ecoutez; dites-moi, si je parle bien: de
Which was, that he, in lieu o' the premises
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
Be't not in thy care; go,
ACT I
Exeunt
All that good time will give us: this attempt
The stumbling night did part our weary powers?
According to the measure of their states.
Re-enter OTHELLO and Attendants
It ill beseems this presence to cry aim
I am sick still; heart-sick. Pisanio,
Go levy men, and make prepare for war;
Thou diest for it.
Ha, ha! what sayest thou?
Storm and tempest
Lord, Lord, how the ladies and I have put him down!
blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained:
The attribute to awe and majesty,
And I, my lord, will bear him company.
It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
And till I root out their accursed line
creature of sale.
What are you, sir?
To Lewis the emperor, and Lewis the son
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
Be patient; we must bring you to our captain.
Thou strokedst me and madest much of me, wouldst give me
Is now leased out, I die pronouncing it,
Enter the COUNTESS and her Porter
Two thousand ducats by the year of land!
As she had made the overture, she ceased
My liege, one word.
To flatter up these powers of mine with rest,
My lord, he doth deny to come.
backside the town.
When violence assails us.
The third son, Duke of Clarence, from whose line
In good sadness, I do not know; either it is there,
What, are the brothers parted?
Abetting him to thwart me in my mood!
O, 'tis a foul thing when a cur cannot keep himself
for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and
to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida. She must
The weird sisters, hand in hand,
I, gentle mistress.
Now I perceive that she hath made compare
And consequence of dread, that I committed
This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
Shall lay your stately and air-braving towers,
How! not women?
Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
Then do I give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine,
He loved his mother dearly.
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
ignorant, call I the deer the princess killed a pricket.
Her virtues graced with external gifts
This reprobate till he were well inclined;
is no man can tell what. Methought I was,--and
Trumpets sound
For the instalment of this noble duke
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
The minute I began.
He will be talking.
Stand gracious to the rites that we intend!
What, ho! Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there?
And those his golden beams to you here lent
manly spirit: adieu.
Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,
Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea,
For we have nothing else to ask, but that
shall be with her between ten and eleven; for at
My life may last to answer.
Of Caesar's death.
Is it possible?
Enter NORFOLK
Being done, there is no pause.
Since things in motion sooner catch the eye
you; for I think I have taken my last draught in
Exit
Which, if he take, shall quite unpeople her
And work in their shirt too; as myself, for example,
DON
But I am sure the younger of our nature,
And, like a troop of jolly huntsmen, come
Neither of either; I remit both twain.
But I will none of them; they are for you;
And falling from a hill, he was so bruised
'Tis love you cavil at: I am not Love.
What rein can hold licentious wickedness
That feed'st me with the very name of meat:
Come our lovely lady nigh;
lanthorn is the moon; I, the man in the moon; this
infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly
Thus in a chapel lying! Come off, come off:
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
How shall I fashion me to wear a cloak?
And raise his issue, like a loving sire;
The Duke of Somerset, whom he terms traitor.
married man'?
As pearls from diamonds dropp'd. In brief,
father's sake, Henry the Fifth, in whose time boys
I, not remembering how I cried out then,
his colour: your daughter-in-law had been alive at
Was't I! yea, I it was, proud Frenchwoman:
Were you but riding forth to air yourself,
Adieu, good man devil.
The sciences that should become our country;
You may as well forbid the mountain pines
Hark! I hear their drum.
To tell sad stories of my own mishaps.
Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister?
You must know,
Committed by your person and your followers
Plaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'd
To learn his wit to exchange the bad for better.
RICHARD
the other; for all your writers do consent that ipse
Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread?
A lass unparallel'd. Downy windows, close;
He'll breed revengement and a scourge for me;
O Hamlet, speak no more:
Gave him their heirs, as pages follow'd him
What, did he marry me to famish me?
Enter GLOUCESTER, and Servants with torches
Is forth to man his galleys. To the vales,
daughter unto Reignier King of Naples, Sicilia and
shall come over it; for, in most comely truth, thou
I dare now call mine own. O Cromwell, Cromwell!
And, for an entrance to my entertainment,
He shall have nothing but the penalty.
SCENE II. Padua. Before HORTENSIO'S house.
The conclusion is then that it will.
[To CLAUDIO]  Means your lordship to be married
For then he's full of matter.
My noble partners, and myself, thus pray:
Sir, be patient:
To whom I do appeal; and in whose name
ring may be stolen too: so your brace of unprizable
Of both is flatter'd; but he neither loves,
Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business
I do betray myself with blushing. Maid!
And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here,
Say to her, we have measured many miles
Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
If your peevish chastity, which is not worth a
Some busy and insinuating rogue,
As 'tis no better reckon'd, but of those
He had rather venture all his limbs for honour
I will discharge my bond and thank you too.
Two of her brothers were condemn'd to death,
And when I lived, I was your other wife:
Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,
Like a Colossus, and we petty men
He that has a house to put's head in has a good
He hath honour'd me of late; and I have bought
itself courageous to petticoat: therefore courage,
All this divided York and Lancaster,
Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
I here confess myself the king of Tyre;
Thy flesh and bones: howe'er thou art a fiend,
You shall not be
The outward habit by the inward man.
Whither away! to save myself by flight:
busy below; and so, I pray you, go, in God's name,
are damned. There is but one hope in it that can do
Nothing but 'Mortimer,' and give it him
Or be a known friend, 'gainst his highness' pleasure,
Therefore, no dancing, girl; some other sport.
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle
How now, sir! you villain!
Appear before us? We'll yet enlarge that man,
Your native town you enter'd like a post,
So say I too, sir.
save thy grace,--majesty I should say, for grace
Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old, and
believe: 'tis my slowness that I do not; for I know
The other blank as nothing. Weigh him well,
As well we know your tenderness of heart
His tedious measures with the unbated fire
Is the king's ship; in the deep nook, where once
What, what, my lord! are you so choleric
Now God help thee!
Come, let's all take hands,
That mine own use invites me to cut down,
For what thou hast not, still thou strivest to get,
And little is to do.
These words become your lips as they pass
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.
'Tis pity of him.
Larded with sweet flowers
Exit
worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it
crab. Thou canst tell why one's nose stands i'
Whilst thou liest warm at home, secure and safe;
That the rude sea grew civil at her song
Go, you cot-quean, go,
Think what a chance thou changest on, but think
So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
than a stone. Look you now, he's out of his guard
No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
Come, let us take a muster speedily:
Why, any cloak will serve the turn, my lord.
And our affairs from England come too late:
Wherefore that box?
Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
The hind that would be mated by the lion
And, to be short, for not appearance and
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;
And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send,
Supposing that I lack'd it. But, on, Caesar;
No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
Enter BRUTUS
It likes us well; young princes, close your hands.
What a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of
politic; he crossed himself by 't: and I cannot
[Aside]  That such an ass should owe them.
Though his false finger have profaned the ring,
Lie with her! lie on her! We say lie on her, when
But such a headstrong potent fault it is,
Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
So please you, for I never heard it yet;
Which still hath been both grave and prosperous,
Of great Apollo's priest; and that, since then,
It skills not much. we'll fit him to our turn,--
Was graft with crab-tree slip; whose fruit thou art,
rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
Sir, have pity;
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love,
For kissing of their feet; yet always bending
That I am sudden sick: quick, and return.
To spend the time to end it.
Eat, I pray you: will you have some more sauce to
A lady like me, with a love even such,
It cannot be; thou dost but say 'tis so:
your ring; which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it
Caesar can hide the sun from us with a blanket, or
In good time.
Enter MACDUFF
Bight Phoebus in his strength--a malady
If it find heaven, must find it out to-night.
Well, this is the forest of Arden.
But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?
ACT II
But that one half which is unsatisfied,
Enter a Messenger
What is the matter, sir?
And a clear life ensuing.
'em, I think, surely.
explication; facere, as it were, replication, or
Cowards die many times before their deaths;
which is called true is so like an old tale, that
That e'er I put between your holy looks
And the protector's wife, beloved of him?
On his command: he would not suffer me
What, art thou afraid?
Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
As once our mother; use like note and words,
And I for Ganymede.
If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's Castle;
my wish shall show me the way to my will.
Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!
Now thrive the armourers, and honour's thought
she's noted.
Above all princes, in committing freely
The king is set from London; and the scene
He'ld make an end of thy posterity.
The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd
Hath been but for a wayward son,
the streets, and at every corner have them kiss. Away!
Oh, Oh, Oh!
May trumpet to the world: my heart's subdued
My uncle Rivers talk'd how I did grow
Hubert shall be your man, attend on you
A proclaim'd prize! Most happy!
Whose compass is no bigger than thy head;
And his sandal shoon.
For I have made an offer to his majesty,
I will your very faithful feeder be
The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,
Is so from sense in hardness, that I can
Or slunk not Saturnine, as Tarquin erst,
his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.
[Aside]  The late queen's gentlewoman,
The clock hath stricken three.
non pour les dames d'honneur d'user: je ne voudrais
And bid me, when my fate would have me wive,
Where think'st thou he is now? Stands he, or sits he?
Win straying souls with modesty again,
And the twin Dromio all were taken up;
For many years thought dead, are now revived,
With such deep contempt made I him king for this?
Making and marring fortunes. You did know
If there be such a dart in princes' frowns,
You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;
the truth, stolen from my host at Saint Alban's, or
not according to the disciplines of the war: the
Ad manes fratrum sacrifice his flesh,
Which now doth that I would not have it do,
Exit
Dogs howl'd, and hideous tempest shook down trees;
Water with berries in't, and teach me how
The steps of wrong, should move you to mew up
As on a mountain top the cedar shows
Skirmish again
You will not, then?
And yet runn'st toward him still. Thou art not noble;
Of blessed sanctuary! not for all this land
And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands,
Is not so estimable, profitable neither,
As I weigh grief, which I would spare: for honour,
An't like your lordly lord-protectorship.
though he had no hand in his death, shall receive
Yes, brother, you may live:
And made a gap in nature.
For parting us,--O, is it all forgot?
The more accursed thou, that still omitt'st it.
Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend
Exeunt
Mistress Anne, yourself shall go first.
With dull unwilligness to repay a debt
Sayest thou?
Some beast rear'd this; there does not live a man.
The rather for I have some sport in hand
For look how fresh she looks! They were too rough
That I, unworthy body as I am,
Was mutually committed?
with a new wound in your thigh, come you along with me.
And never mayst thou come Lysander near!
A man, as you are.
That you have many enemies, that know not
[Aside to NESTOR]  And how his silence drinks up
The truest manner'd; such a holy witch
Cut off the sequence of posterity,
Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
Not Isabel?
And the queen's sons and brothers haught and proud:
I do not like your faults.
Bids thee leave these, and with her sovereign grace,
'Tis no counterfeit.
Hear you. my lords,--
Produce his body to the market-place;
a verb, and such abominable words as no Christian
And twice by awkward wind from England's bank
Have follow'd your sad steps.
Let's have that, good sir.
For the following, sir?
His power unto Octavia.
Let it come down.
And when I urged the ransom once again
Thou shinest in every tear that I do weep:
As infinite as imminent! but I'll be true.
Drums afar off
[Aside]  These are kind creatures. Gods, what lies
Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged: good Sir
Enter a Roman and a Volsce, meeting
Scorn'dst our brain's flow and those our
Is Gilliams with the packet gone?
A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,
Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
As oft as any passion under heaven
Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness.
Why stands he so perplex'd?
Is it so concluded?
The princely Warwick, and the Nevils all,
Philomel, with melody,  and c.
I will do't:
O Desdemona! away! away! away!
Exeunt Second Merchant, Angelo, Officer, and Antipholus of Ephesus
Let him seek out Rosalind.
That else must perish here.
This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner:
Madam, I have a touch of your condition,
are gone: crows and daws, crows and daws! I had
Beats in this hollow prison of my flesh,
Say, if I do, the laws are mine, not thine:
But what, o' God's name, doth become of this?
What is in Silvia's face, but I may spy
rushling, I warrant you, in silk and gold; and in
Made out of her impatience, which not wanted
And in the witness of his proper ear,
How came these things to pass?
For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead.
[Within]  And you said no.
and lighted
till our very pastime, tired out of breath, prompt
To encounter me with orisons, for then
the body. The king is a thing--
How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
Impose me to what penance your invention
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
But 'tis that miracle and queen of gems
For good Marina, that her daughter
Besides the gods, for this great miracle.
Of present death.
whom you should have been a pander: over and above
do you no harm to learn.
gods! O fine villain! A silken doublet! a velvet
On twenty bloody blocks, he'ld yield them up,
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he
Which elder days shall ripen and confirm
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE on the top, thrusting out a torch burning
And as a suitor will I give him this.
Although in glorious titles he excel.
Consider further,
What are you there? Your names?
I render, for my brethren's obsequies;
bawdy-houses, and one poor penny-worth of
Into the service of the time and was
No; Master Slender is let the boys leave to play.
Hopeless and helpless doth AEgeon wend,
Before the dew of evening fall, shall fleet,
No more a Briton, I have resumed again
O, that the slave had forty thousand lives!
Right; so I say.
Say that she rail; why then I'll tell her plain
Ay, marry, does he. If he should intend this voyage
Out, dunghill!
that is, the old duke is banished by his younger
Let Marcus, Lucius, or thyself, old Titus,
With too much blood and too little brain, these two
Enter PANDARUS and CRESSIDA
A freestone-colour'd hand; I verily did think
Let's make us medicines of our great revenge,
Let's have your company, or, if you please,
than the stripes I have received, which are mighty
And something spoke in choler, ill, and hasty:
It warm'd thy father's heart with proud desire
Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
And he shall think that thou, which know'st the way
And falsehood falsehood cures, as fire cools fire
Then should the warlike Harry, like himself,
Yes, marry, have I; what of that?
Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet
that only tells a lie and swears it. I cannot be a
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:
From mine own library with volumes that
Exit Boy
And pardon comes: I shall anon advise you
take him to be a thief too, sir; for we have found
Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd;
I tell you what, Captain Gower; I do perceive he is
Take him hence; to the rack with him! We'll touse you
Than three great argosies; besides two galliases,
Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays
I care not.
Enter BORACHIO and CONRADE
Your father's sickness is a maim to us.
But you shall do no harm.
A burning torch that's turned upside down;
The man, I do assure you, is not here;
I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon
Born out of your dominions; having here
I have my wish.
Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is
'Tis known to you he is mine enemy,
Most fortunately: he hath achieved a maid
O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides!
Talbot, farewell; thy hour is not yet come:
Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles; slaves,
Great Glamis! worthy Cawdor!
very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
sell him an hour from her beholding, I, considering
By the law of arms thou wast not bound to answer
Here, sir; what is your pleasure?
I love him not nor hate him not; and yet
Accept distracted thanks.
Cuts off his tale and talks of Arthur's death.
And, which was strange, the one so like the other,
Our mistress' sorrows we were pitying.
Will not offend thee.
I have then sinned against his experience and
And let them be recall'd from their exile:
Wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness.
Gone slightly o'er low steps and now are mounted
Go put it to the haste.
Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
Here was a Caesar! when comes such another?
Why, man?
Your legs did better service than your hands.
Sans cheque to good and bad: but when the planets
Nothing, my lord.
Myself, well mounted, hardly have escaped.
Makes many Thetis' sons.
friends true and constant: a good plot, good
and devils!
Thy loss is more than can thy portage quit,
As it is here set down.
But now in arms you strengthen it with yours:
Ay, and by heaven, one that will do the deed
And, if you may confess it, say withal,
I might know more.
[Aside]  And yet you will; and yet another 'yet.'
Spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman.
I cannot, nor I will not, hold me still;
a maid, for she is her master's maid, and serves for
No, Cassius; for the eye sees not itself,
Will never more break faith advisedly.
And sinks most lamentably. Had our general
When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape
Summon their general unto the wall.
And yet I will not, sith so prettily
He spake of her, as Dian had hot dreams,
That would hang us, every mother's son.
Perchance he is not drown'd: what think you, sailors?
Have holp to make this rescue?
Exit
As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
RICHARD
I must of another errand to Sir John Falstaff from
Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee,
As they would hang them on the horns o' the moon,
How now, Catesby, what says your lord?
SCENE I. The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
his service
We doubt it nothing.
Come, Antony, away!
Could not have laid such terms upon his callat.
He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking
possible, on such a sudden, you should fall into so
How these things came about: so shall you hear
look,--do you call, sir, your occupation a mystery?
And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
Took their discharge.
Marry, the gods forfend!
Go in, Nerissa;
A man is master of his liberty:
To see our widower's second marriage-day.
But, O malignant and ill-boding stars!
Very true, sir; he, sir, he; that's the rogue that
To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger,
Where is Montjoy the herald? speed him hence:
smooth; so that, having neither the voice nor the
Bells in your parlors, wild-cats in your kitchens,
An unknown opposite; thou art not vanquish'd,
His nurse! why, she was dead ere thou wert born.
Enter MALCOLM and MACDUFF
If any order might be thought upon.
[Kneeling]  Pardon, sweet father.
Ah, madam, 'tis too true: and that is worse,
Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things.
turn another into the register of your own; that I
justices could not take up a quarrel, but when the
Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours;
If you do hold the same intent wherein
The very devils cannot plague them better.
Enter GLOUCESTER and his Servingmen, in mourning cloaks
And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,
His cocks do win the battle still of mine,
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
what remedy? As there is no true cuckold but
But all the story of the night told over,
Goodness and he fill up one monument!
Gives us more palm in beauty than we have,
Dead.
loves him. Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
And made Verona's ancient citizens
Meaning the king at Pomfret. Come, let's go:
But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
short-armed ignorance itself knows is so abundant
What?
Gladly, my lord.
And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour'd wife?
I faint almost to death.
I beseech you all, be better known to this
Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but,
Look you, here comes my mistress' page.
Is shiny; and they say we shall embattle
Exit SILVIA, with attendants
So please your grace, we'll take her from the sheriff.
And you, sir! Would you speak with me?
Lest he should take exceptions to my love;
To see you ta'en from liberty, to look on
Ay, to a niggardly host, and more sparing guest:
A more sounder instance, come.
This peroration with such circumstance?
Embark his royalty; and his brave fleet
Presented to the tears of soft remorse.
This prince hath neither claim'd it nor deserved it;
Enter ISABELLA
praise for creating. If she had partaken of my
Of what hath moved you.
and there's the humour of it. Adieu.
Call in the sheriff.
To QUEEN ELIZABETH
Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection.
Sweet doctor, you shall be my bed-fellow:
Could not have made this peace.
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
For what is he they follow?  truly, gentlemen,
If he were putting to my house the brand
O, he hath drawn my picture in his letter!
Enter CASSIO and IAGO
Do't! he will do't; for, look you, sir, he has as
Words before blows: is it so, countrymen?
Dinner is ready, and your father stays.
And throw't against the wind. To the market-place!
Blown with the windy tempest of my heart,
His over-mounting spirit, and there died,
Turn you the key, and know his business of him;
Nay, answer, if you can: the Frenchmen are our
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
Buck! I would I could wash myself of the buck!
Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief--
The heavens speed thee in thine enterprise!
For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself:
The map of honour, truth and loyalty:
Do not yourself such wrong, who are in this
She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,
But for because he hath not woo'd me yet:
Good or bad?
Rosaline, by good hap.
Desired my Cressid in right great exchange,
May now provoke them to.
These eyes could never endure sweet beauty's wreck;
Ay, do you fear it?
And where this breach now in our fortunes made
We are, my lord; and come to have the warrant
And then betwixt me and my married wife.
By us perform'd before. Most dearly welcome!
And knows not how to do it but with tears.
Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends
perplexity, yet did not this cruel-hearted cur shed
Returns the good Andronicus to Rome,
Ho, by your leave!
I would not have thee linger in thy pain: So, so.
That I have much ado to know myself.
[Within]  If thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear:
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,
What then?
Good morrow, neighbour Gremio.
To him that hath more cause to be a mourner,
Is marching hitherwards; with him Prince John.
Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it:
should find
We'll sift this matter further.
As far as to the sepulchre of Christ,
Had it pleased heaven
They pass over the stage in order and state
Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
For he's a bastard one--had plotted with them
O judgment! thou art fled to brutish beasts,
You shall look fairer, ere I give or hazard.
certain of it; and when I cannot live any longer, I
a fool you were upon the ground.
Where hast been, Hal?
And see the cities and the towns defaced
See, ho! who is that there?
Where have you hid yourself?
O, 'tis our setter: I know his voice. Bardolph,
And that, my state being gall'd with my expense,
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
If I loved many words, lord, I should tell you
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Nay, whip me then: he'll rather
good horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
The other, London.
Thus will I save my credit in the shoot:
What, my old worshipful old master? yes, marry, sir:
Exeunt
If this inducement force her not to love,
ACT V
did she, an hour together, transshape thy particular
Be poisonous too and kill thy forlorn queen.
Farewell, good Charles.
The penance lies on you, if these fair ladies
I crave no more than what your highness offer'd,
Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
Worthy tribunes,
If in her marriage my consent be missing,
Why, alas, what's the matter?
By wailful sonnets, whose composed rhymes
O, let me pray before I take my death!
The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye,
Barr'st me my way in Rome?
And that I did deny my wife and house.
He was excellent indeed, madam: the king very
But what should go by water. Prithee, tonight
name is Ford.
My heart into my mouth: I love your majesty
himself; if he mend, he is no longer dishonest; if
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
saw you last that, I fear me, will never out of
reports; but the best is, he lives not in them.
Supplied with worthy men! plant love among 's!
Would that do it good?
Say to the king, I would attend his leisure
May be the amorous count solicits her
This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve;
And pardon us the interruption
[Kneeling]               Your blessing, sir.
To make that worse, suffer'd his kinsman March,
That, being a stranger in this city here,
my course of loyalty, though the conflict be sore
watchman; for I cannot see how sleeping should
With thy confederates in this weighty cause.
That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke
Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms
But I much marvel that your lordship, having
gives your Hollander a vomit, ere the next pottle
Exeunt, leading KATHARINE
me. I made me no more ado but took all their seven
He did not call; he's busy in the paper.
My wayward husband hath a hundred times
hast men about thee that usually talk of a noun and
For, being transported by my jealousies
Therefore paucas pallabris; let the world slide: sessa!
Of liegers for her sweet, and which she after,
As would be cramm'd up in a sheet of paper,
But 'tis no wit to go.
And God forgive them that so much have sway'd
such meet food to feed it as Signior Benedick?
SCENE V. The same. A garden.
One, Richard Earl of Cambridge, and the second,
I am not sent to you by my lady, to bid you come
Thy sheep shall take no harm.
Holds hand with any princess of the world.
Edward, her lord, whom I, some three months since,
I know not which pleases me better, that my husband
The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder;
Alack the day, I know you not, young gentleman:
That is your part: yet I am advised to do it;
Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye:
No, not to be so odd and from all fashions
My haste made me unmannerly. There is staying
Implored your highness' pardon and set forth
We thank your honour.
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse
My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
To find you out.
Exit, guarded
[Reads]  I have sent you a daughter-in-law: she hath
house. Shall we thither and with our company piece
For thou must now know farther.
Shall never tremble: or be alive again,
Let me ne'er see again.
King Stephen was a worthy peer,
To better vantage.
And I prithee tell me, how dost thou find the
To kill him, Clitus. Look, he meditates.
That you did fear is done.
wit that fools have was silenced, the little foolery
Re-enter Guardsman, with Clown bringing in a basket
Come, swear it, damn thyself
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more
Exit KATHARINA
There's something else to do: hush, and be mute,
The confident and over-lusty French
Come, follow me, boy; come, sir boy, come, follow me:
When ye first put this dangerous stone a-rolling,
And, having gilt the ocean with his beams,
That may be wish'd for.
Of an invincible unconquer'd spirit!
with her, and bring her along with you, it may awake
It struck mine ear most terribly.
As I am truly given to understand,
And waxen in their mirth and neeze and swear
It carries a brave form. But 'tis a spirit.
Poor rogue hereditary. Hence, be gone!
ANTIPHOLUS
to continue now, thou varlet; thou art to continue.
Why tender juvenal? why tender juvenal?
Thou'rt i' the right. Go, sir, rub your chain with
Following the mirror of all Christian kings,
You know I gave it you half an hour since.
For lovers ever run before the clock.
No messenger, but thine; and all alone
Yes, my conscience, he did us great good.
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
He spoke, and learnedly, for life; but all
You have seen nothing then?
Till it cry sleep to death.
Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
With me since first you knew me. But, I pray you,
Peace! no more.
Thy promises are like Adonis' gardens
is a little variations.
Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
Let him approach.
'Fore God, his grace is bold, to trust these traitors.
And, by my faith, this league that we have made
Must not be measured by his worth, for then
porpus how he bounced and tumbled? they say
Within his tent; but ill disposed, my lord.
Sir, she came in great with child; and longing,
kinsman Toby,--
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus, DROMIO of Ephesus, ANGELO, and BALTHAZAR
offered him, he put it by with the back of his hand,
But, soft! who wafts us yonder?
A sure destruction.
you can move him.
For my poor brother's head.
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken,
see thee pass thy punto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy
Of mine own eyes.
To the Pedant
What is this
Nothing ill come near thee!
We'll wait upon you.
Good news or bad, that thou comest in so bluntly?
Yet still she is the moon, and I the man.
So; lift there.
Be packing, therefore, thou that wast a knight:
To enforce the pained impotent to smile.
Re-enter HELICANUS, LYSIMACHUS, and MARINA
SCENE II. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Marry, sir, I come to speak with Sir John Falstaff
Ambassador to the emperor, you made bold
To guard a thing not ours nor worth to us,
ANTIPHOLUS
When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland,
SCENE II. Saint Alban's.
There lies that Tybalt.
I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him
But be the serpent under't. He that's coming
my son.' 'My daughter.' 'He killed my cousin
SCENE VII. Another room in the castle.
Shall for itself itself perform.
Bear thou my hand, sweet wench, between thy teeth.
What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
drawer? come, what's the issue?
With this abundance of superfluous breath?
Nor shall not be the last; like silly beggars
Claudio shall render me a dear account. As you
Against your sacred person, in God's name,
right to trust none; and the fine is, for the which
Madam, I will.
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
For one being sued to, one that humbly sues;
O, could our mourning ease thy misery!
Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and
And I for my escape have put on his;
Which does mend nature, change it rather, but
Nay, it will please him well, Kate it shall please
I'll watch as long for you then. Approach;
To mine own children in good bringing up:
The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly;
Till he faced the slave;
So that from point to point now have you heard
I know them both.
sick, or angry?
Both alike:
every man to his business.
Down therefore and beg mercy of the duke.
And lie full low, graved in the hollow ground.
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
There had she not been long, but she became
That possible strength might meet, would seek us through
And what of him? did he take interest?
The noble knot he made.
You are so empty of them. Should not our father
But what thou art, God, thou, and I do know;
I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
back, will I ravish her: first kill him, and in her
What he his heart should make
Then saw you not his face?
And mock'd the dead bones that lay scatter'd by.
Receive the sentence of the law for sins
Whom he redeem'd from prison: all these
All made of passion and all made of wishes,
For, daughter, so you are,--here take your place:
So think of your estate.
For law is strict, and war is nothing more.
Now, mistress, how chance you went not with Master Slender?
[Aside]  Ay, and as good as Saturninus may.
The noble Brutus is ascended: silence!
Enter TALBOT and JOHN his son
Very well:
Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man
Can you eat roots, and drink cold water? no.
Why do you bend such solemn brows on me?
make one. Though we are justices and doctors and
It beckons you to go away with it,
Nay, 'tis most credible; we here received it
duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
black beard will turn white; a curled pate will grow
If any think brave death outweighs bad life
Aloof from the entire point. Will you have her?
More fell than anguish, hunger, or the sea!
Before the people all,
I am glad that my weak words
qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
Thy gown? why, ay: come, tailor, let us see't.
I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
Of Launcelot, an't please your mastership.
I beseech you, peace:
By desperate appliance are relieved,
Sad, lady! I could be sad: this does make some
He's too big to go in there. What shall I do?
And left them
Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.
I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever
And wrangle with my reason that persuades me
storms and tempests than almanacs can report: this
But, soft! I see the goldsmith. Get thee gone;
So strive upon your pulse. What, pale again?
Soft! take thy physic first--thou too--and thou;--
Mistress Anne Page: and the letter is, to desire
Enter ISABELLA
To say 'live, boy:' ne'er thank thy master; live:
Believe me, there's an ill opinion spread then
How I am galled,--mightst bespice a cup,
To Lynn, my lord,
Friend Launcelot, what's the news?
Women and children of so high a courage,
He did me kindness, sir, drew on my side;
Transported, with no worse nor better guard
As fire, air, water, earth, and heaven can make,
Of what complexion?
By deed-achieving honour newly named,--
What peace you'll make, advise me: for my part,
And sleep and snore, and rend apparel out;--
Till tongues fetch breath that may proclaim them louder;
Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions and spirit,
My life were better ended by their hate,
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
must incline to the king. I will seek him, and
Yet am I arm'd against the worst can happen;
First, know, my horse is tired; my master and
Have been beholding to him in his life;
With an unquiet soul. You shall have gold
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
point, so to the full arming of the verity.
Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for
Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
Enter OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, CASSIO, and Attendants
till you may do it without controlment. You have of
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
Stands, as the Capitol, directly here.
Lord Strange of Blackmere, Lord Verdun of Alton,
A good swift simile, but something currish.
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
All hurt behind; backs red, and faces pale
Persever in that clear way thou goest,
Does he rake this together! Now, my lords,
And then deny her aiding hand therein,
Break too.
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
His worth is warrant for his welcome hither,
Beyond imagination is the wrong
Now spurs the lated traveller apace
DON
When my good falcon made her flight across
Or dead, or sleeping on him? But dead rather;
That pitiful rumour may report my flight,
Not?
Lord cardinal, I will follow Eleanor,
And yet too good to be your concubine.
As all the tuned spheres, and that to friends;
love her, I am a Jew. I will go get her picture.
Ah, this thou shouldst have done,
Enter two Officers, to lay cushions
Can the world buy such a jewel?
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
I must have your maidenhead taken off, or the common
And hangs on Dian's temple: dear Valeria!
The service and the loyalty I owe,
I am quit.
Yes, Warwick, I remember it to my grief;
Thrice-blessed they that master so their blood,
will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no further.
And fame's eternal date, for virtue's praise!
Cannot be well bestow'd.
thou hast leisure, say thy prayers; when thou hast
Exit
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
For my part, I have walk'd about the streets,
It is no shame: the fellow finds his vein,
too: we shall speak of you there.
That gold must round engirt these brows of mine,
She excels each mortal thing
I know not where is that Promethean heat
Be hang'd up for example at their doors:
A dead-looking man: this pernicious slave,
King Henry's faithful and anointed queen:
He shall see none to fear.
Only reserved, you claim no interest
You tell me true.
Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits,
Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
which is much in a bare Christian.
Macduff, this noble passion,
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.
She sings as sweetly as a nightingale:
When they shall hear how we have play'd the men.
Could all but answer for that peevish brat?
As next the king he was successive heir,
man. What a woman are you!--Away with him, away
Thy prime of manhood daring, bold, and venturous,
And yet within these five hours lived Lord Hastings,
That have afflictions on them, knowing 'tis
to play it in?
constable, and my name is Elbow: I do lean upon
The fall of Antony!
Of this commission? I believe, not any.
I thus would play and trifle with your reverence:
For she hath blessed and attractive eyes.
Exeunt QUEEN KATHARINE and her Attendants
In your dear highness' love.
But smacks of something greater than herself,
Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure.
Therefore let's have fresh ones, whate'er we pay for
never else cross me thus.
And a thousand fragrant posies.
I will then give it you soundly.
It is of such a spacious lofty pitch,
I thank thee, Moon, for shining now so bright;
Thy huntress' name that my full life doth sway.
As this is false he burdens me withal!
Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see
towards London.
Let me end the story:
The gods forbid else!
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
And not their appetites! I had rather be a toad,
Son, I say, follow the king.
How much more is his life in value with him?
Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it.
A lousy knave, to have his gibes and his mockeries!
she thanks you a thousand times; and she gives you
Behold her well; I pray you, look upon her:
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
So.
And see them ready 'gainst their mother comes.
As I have such a heart that both mine ears
To make Judas hang himself.
He throws the bottle at him. Exit
And with what imitation you can borrow
Speak softly, wake her not.
Would you'ld pardon me;
Then honour be but a goal to my will,
And here will Talbot mount, or make his grave.
And that would woo her. Upon this hint I spake:
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse:
And haste is needful in this desperate case.
In an extravagant and wheeling stranger
Soft! and the impressure her Lucrece, with which she
Do glorify the banks that bound them in;
article of thy gentry.
Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear
We'll lay before this town our royal bones,
To grace in captive bonds his chariot-wheels?
The whitest virtue strikes. What king so strong
SONG.
'Tis certain, every man that dies ill, the ill upon
Where is she, sir? Come nearer;
ACT III
And there will we abide. I do desire you
SCENE II. The same. The Capitol.
And patient underbearing of his fortune,
Ay, but these English are shrewdly out of beef.
himself, for he does neither affect company, nor is
To feeling as to sight? or art thou but
Being vex'd a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:
Aside
When, Harry, when?
enough. Who can speak broader than he that has no
I owe you much, and, like a wilful youth,
Enough to purchase such another island,
she's a virgin?
A banish'd traitor.
Were to prove false, which I will never be,
kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.
Let me choose
Of excellent dumb discourse.
What is love? 'tis not hereafter;
Because not there: this woman's answer sorts,
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
To have my love to bed and to arise;
Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
To give thee answer of thy just demand.
Enter MARCUS ANDRONICUS, aloft, with the crown
Is outward sorrow; though I think the king
I mean, I walked upon: it is y-cleped thy park. Then
strange bed-fellows. I will here shroud till the
That's certain: I, for my part, knew the tailor
And that the queen's kindred are made gentle-folks:
this advise you, follow. So he wishes you all
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
Bring me no more reports; let them fly all:
If, till the expiration of your month,
I will dismount, and by the waggon-wheel
Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile,
SCENE III. The Florentine camp.
Is jollity for apes and grief for boys.
almost six thousand years old, and in all this time
Debts wither 'em to nothing; be men like
Never to woo her no more, but do forswear her,
fellow partner.
Signior Bassanio, hear me:
death, with the manner how she came to't bravely
Go softly on.
All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore,
Take up a brace o' the best of them; yea, the
I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement!
Cut both the villains' throats; for die you shall:
Do:
Exit Lieutenant
Her ashes new create another heir,
Most rich in Timon's nod.
SCENE XIII. Alexandria. Cleopatra's palace.
SCENE IV. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
To answer matters of this consequence.
Gallops the zodiac in his glistering coach,
If it be proved! you see it is apparent.
I'll whip thee with a rod: he is defiled
He broke from those that had the guard of him;
I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
Patroclus make demands to me, you shall see the
From course required; or else thou must be counted
Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort;
Will be here with mop and mow.
God match me with a good dancer!
Such doubts, as false coin, from it. The king loves you;
'Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman
Most reverend Nestor, I am glad to clasp thee.
In life so lifeless as it shows itself.
Against their father, fool me not so much
with me till they meet together.
Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany,
A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio.
Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you
Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar,
And I take him to be valiant.
In any chastisement: I for a while will leave you;
Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
evening prayer, as any is in Windsor, whoe'er be the
At war 'twixt will and will not.
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
And dare avow her beauty and her worth
kinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders. If
Humbly I thank your grace.
And that small model of the barren earth
I laugh to see your ladyship so fond
Consider of it.'
Kind my lord.
The head of Ragozine for Claudio's:
Why, what effects of passion shows she?
Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Biron,
Play the men.
A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements:
But when it first did help to wound itself.
For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine
That doit that e'er I wrested from the king,
Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she
Enter OTHELLO
talk is most tolerable and not to be endured.
To tender objects, but he in heat of action
pleasure but in passion, not in words only, but in
To my demands. Why do you pity me?
Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster,
Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play.
What say you, Hermia? be advised fair maid:
With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders,
To jump a body with a dangerous physic
Digest this letter of the cardinal's?
provost, honesty and constancy: if I read it not
As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
So please it you, my lord, 'twere not amiss
That now I will have: that's the humour of it.
[To TAMORA]  Now, madam, are you prisoner to
That handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee
Well, to our work alive. What do you think
From our debate, from our dissension;
Darest thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence;
And makest an oath the surety for thy truth
Become some women best, so that there be not
Thou swear'st thy gods in vain.
'Tis well said again;
upon him, sir, a strange picklock, which we have
Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out
And let not search and inquisition quail
Cassius, be content.
Why have I patience to endure all this?
And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul!
The same.
As friends to Antioch, we may feast in Tyre.
Following darkness like a dream,
That set thee on to this desert, am bound
For suddenly a grievous sickness took him,
Begins to swell, and the approaching tide
Then broke I from the officers that led me,
Jack hath not Jill: these ladies' courtesy
We will be short with you. 'Tis his highness' pleasure,
And machination ceases. Fortune love you.
Falstaff here?
Of him that caused it.
Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.
Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves;
And, throwing but shows of service on their lords,
Who was it?
And reverend looker on, of two fair queens.
SCENE VII. Florence. The Widow's house.
I shall, my lord.
So service shall with steeled sinews toil,
Nay, it is petter yet. Give her this letter; for it
You shall do well; the fault of it I'll answer.
Unto the citizens, who haply may
To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;
Enter FALSTAFF
To BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Who knew of Your intent and coming hither?
Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows,
By this light, a most perfidious and drunken
Answer mere nature; bid them flatter thee;
[Aside]                It works.
You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me:
hast the harvest out of thine own report.
I, having been acquainted with the smell before,
Exeunt
To give our hearts united ceremony.
beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me:
I think it freely; and betimes in the morning I will
And let us make incision for your love,
I cannot blame him: was not he proclaim'd
Proud of their numbers and secure in soul,
Whose top-branch overpeer'd Jove's spreading tree
SCENE I. Britain. The Roman camp.
Then, I prithee, be merry; thy wit shall ne'er go
With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads,
What is thy name? Is man so hateful to thee,
For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Pray you, lead on. At every house I'll call;
Until your lordship came to see his death;
Mercy o' me, what a multitude are here!
'Tis most nobly spoken.
Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call thus:
for thou art not so long by the head as
That would have forced your honour and your love;
Singing
To put you to't. But come; our dance, I pray:
till they've swallowed the whole parish, church,
Music. Here a dance of Shepherds and Shepherdesses
Do you not hope your children shall be kings,
SCENE I. The king of Navarre's park.
That's as much as to say, Can she so?
If there were no foes, that were enough
Agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine,
with an unpitied whipping, for you have been a
Betwixt the prince and beggar: I have said
These present wars shall find I love my country,
And his brave son being twain.
to her by oath, and the nuptial appointed: between
Infer the bastardy of Edward's children:
of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
RICHARD
O short-lived pride! Not fair? alack for woe!
Why, what a shame was this! Did my commission
Under the veil of wildness; which, no doubt,
Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.
Nor never Hydra-headed wilfulness
We will ourselves provide:
And make the wars alike against my stomach,
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
Some of them will fall to-morrow, I hope.
Double six thousand, and then treble that,
Shall I twice lose.
Enter WILLIAM
As hot as Perseus, spur thy Phrygian steed,
Royal sir,
Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
But though I am a daughter to his blood,
That were the most, if he should husband you.
But Reignier, king of Naples, that prevail'd.
For he is, sure, i' the island.
I will tell truth; by grace itself I swear.
And thou, and I, sit round about some fountain,
urinal, that not an eye that sees you but is a
Caesar, I never stood on ceremonies,
My bounties upon you.
Know, my name is lost;
Tell me what blessings I have here alive,
Drum heard
He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall:
Of the divorce he'ld make! The heavens hold firm
But when they should endure the bloody spur,
Upon the left hand of the even field.
self? It were, my lord, a hard condition for a maid
And now I cloy me with beholding it.
Bid them repair to the market place; where I,
Roused on the sudden from their drowsy beds,
I thank thee, Varrius; thou hast made good haste:
O, good sir, I do.
SCENE VII. Another part of the field.
He will seek there, on my word. Neither press,
The ostentation of our love, which, left unshown,
Your betters have endured me say my mind,
And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
By Bushy, Bagot and their complices,
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.'
Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,
Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects;
We carry not a heart with us from hence
Enter MARIA
Be ready to direct these home alarms.
Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds:
I mean the bishop, did require a respite;
I thought upon Antonio when he told me;
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Renowned Talbot doth expect my aid,
Nay, but do, then;
This realm dismantled was
Therefore I urge thy oath; for that I know
Tell him, myself, the mayor and citizens,
bound to your answer? this learned constable is
Well said, adversity! and what need these tricks?
Drawing him aside
Look, what will serve is fit: 'tis once, thou lovest,
derive me ill will to speak of; therefore I will not
My lords, you are appointed for that office;
Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son,
Casting their savageness aside have done
Exeunt SILVIA and THURIO
Run to your houses, fall upon your knees,
Exeunt
were you at Ilium?
Good Rapine, stab him; he's a ravisher.
The fault's your own.
Thy husband.
brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
Madam, you're best consider.
And give them friendly welcome every one:
But boldly stand and front him to his face.
Nay, sure, I think she holds them prisoners still.
And brought Prince Henry in their company;
appearing what we are, have some question with the
Help, ho!--Lieutenant,--sir,--Montano,--sir;
Even by the squandering glances of the fool.
And I am one that love Bianca more
You are like something that--What country-woman?
And, sure, he is an honourable man.
Pardon me, madam,
Farewell, good Strato.
As my great patron thought on in my prayers,--
Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
between me and Ford's wife?
That Rhodes is dress'd in: if we make thought of this,
Lord Bassianus lies embrewed here,
Which God defend a knight should violate!--
What wouldst thou have to Athens?
A stranger, and I not know on't!
Exit ORLANDO
Enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
No, in truth, sir, he should not. 'Deceiving me'
Why, sir, what's your conceit in that?
And ne'er have stol'n the breech from Lancaster.
Which, like your asses and your dogs and mules,
Why, he drinks you, with facility, your Dane dead
To hear the wooden dialogue and sound
And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held
Be taken from the people.
My lady sweet, arise:
Shuts SIMPLE in the closet
mines? have the pioneers given o'er?
Ay, that she can.
Come, let us hence, and put on other weeds;
past watching.
She is hard by with twenty thousand men;
And, now it is half-conquer'd, must I back
And bids you be advised there's nought in France
Our isle be made a nourish of salt tears,
To undergo such maiden pilgrimage;
And prodigally gave them all to you.
Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
To justify this worthy nobleman,
Upon my wretched women, that so long
Enter an armed Soldier
All the contagion of the south light on you,
bethought him of his quarrel, and he finds that now
Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
The heavens with that we have in hand are angry
Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir:
You, his false hopes, the trust of England's honour,
What says she, fair one? that the tongues of men
Ay, but why?
In pain of your dislike or pain of death,
And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow,
And, must needs say, a noble one; which makes me,
But, pray you, stir no embers up. Here comes
To tell you, fair beholders, that our play
I thank thee, master.
During the fray, SATURNINUS, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON and AARON go out and re-enter, above
No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do.
For it an archbishop.
thou ever see me do such a trick?
Amen!
For he will never follow any thing
Signior Arme--Arme--commends you. There's villany
It may be I will go with you: but yet I'll pause;
What, shall a child instruct you what to do?
Kneels
knaves in Kendal green came at my back and let drive
No more words, Thersites; peace!
Let me sit down. O Juno!
The seven-fold shield of Ajax cannot keep
Alas, my lord, I cannot fight; for God's sake, pity
By bright Diana, whom we honour, all
What, are you both agreed?
I would to God my heart were flint, like Edward's;
What, what, ye sanguine, shallow-hearted boys!
Your nose smells 'no' in this, most tender-smelling knight.
Of our dear souls. Meantime, sweet sister,
For though fond nature bids us an lament,
To mow 'em down before me: but if I spared any
Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks!
the jealous knave their master in the door, who
Oft have I digg'd up dead men from their graves,
Like Turkish mute, shall have a tongueless mouth,
steward? Dost thou think, because thou art
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
on the score for sheer ale, score me up for the
A dower, my lords! disgrace not so your king,
Music plays. DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS places them hand in hand
Crowns him with flowers and makes him all her joy:
More man? plague, plague!
know on't; would I were hanged, la, else.
Enter TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, and CHIRON, disguised
Were met together to rehearse a play
Not so, sir, neither; I know my duty.
Say 'pardon,' king; let pity teach thee how:
You love me not.
lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia.
Enter CLEON and DIONYZA
And my desires, like fell and cruel hounds,
I'll speak it in my spirit and honour, 'no.'
[Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!
HECTOR falls
To dusty nothing, yet let memory,
Unto a mad-brain rudesby full of spleen;
To curse the fair proceedings of this day:
To Coriolanus come all joy and honour!
Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
The true blank of thine eye.
Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
He bade me say so--more than all the sceptres
Did not I tell you? Would he were knock'd i' the head!
You are my guests: do me no foul play, friends.
Seducing so my friends; and, to this end,
This was strange chance
Glance at my credit with Hippolyta,
The humour rises; it is good: humour me the angels.
O, not by much.
With this strict charge, even as he left his life,
'Oman, art thou lunatics? hast thou no
Exeunt severally
Like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head:
And flat meads thatch'd with stover, them to keep;
Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid,
discretion but to hang us: but I will aggravate my
plain-dealing man?
And there the little souls of Edward's children
They all start
To revenge is no valour, but to bear.
Of woeful ages long ago betid;
And yet my letters-patents give me leave:
To him that flourish'd for her with his sword
I spake with the old woman about it.
behavior of the country is most mockable at the
She is alone the Arabian bird, and I
Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
Step into the chamber, Sir John.
Therefore, my lord protector, give consent
How goes the world, that I am thus encounter'd
For clothing me in these grave ornaments.
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES
At whose expense 'tis done.
To sport would be as tedious as to work;
come under one body's hand.
did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen,
I' the market-place, on a tribunal silver'd,
And she is mine, and all my right of her
A craftier Tereus, cousin, hast thou met,
That shall not be much amiss: Yet, as the matter
There lie, and there thy character: there these;
Exeunt
This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad,
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman.
To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts;
Rushing on us, should do your age some mischief.
Lest bleeding you do paint the white rose red
For fear of what might fall, so to prevent
there were no living near her; she would infect to
ACT IV
Rail on the Lord's enointed: strike, I say!
They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,
Wherein the pregnant enemy does much.
drowning thyself! it is clean out of the way: seek
Their coin upon large interest, I myself
Go we to him.
Shall make me live. Who knows himself a braggart,
Having call'd them from the deep! O, still
Enter TROILUS
Why you are heavy, and what men to-night
Then, tell me,
Him I forgive my death that killeth me
that's coming toward him.
No deeper wrinkles yet? hath sorrow struck
Nay, look upon him.
His sons, he says, shall give their words for him.
My present vengeance taken: 'shrew my heart,
We first address towards you, who with this king
That leads him to these places: were I his lady,
And your good brethren, I am much beholding;
wife is my mother.
And parted thus you and your argument.
Reads
Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne!
And by the happy hollow of a tree
Discharge my followers: let them hence away,
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
It would infect his speech, that if the king
Have got the mannish crack, sing him to the ground,
That what's else rare is choked; and in that point
And from Pope Innocent the legate here,
But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
Or art thou base, common and popular?
Speak that which is not.
I hope your warrant will bear out the deed.
And first-fruits of my body, from his presence
Enter LADY MACBETH
Bless'd his three sons with his victorious arm,
The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
SCENE I. An apartment in the DUKE'S palace.
King Henry and the prince his son are gone:
only, Mistress Ford, in the simple
My chaplain to no creature living, but
Flourish. Alarum. A retreat is sounded. Flourish.  Enter, from one side, COMINIUS with the Romans; from the other side, MARCIUS, with his arm in a scarf
Does not approve me further, who was wont
Then where you please, and shall be thought most fit
Neither to you nor any one; having no witness to
Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies;
You hear how he importunes me;--the chain!
Well-a-day that you were, sir
Or else was wrangling Somerset in the error?
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  He were the worse for that,
And have prepared great store of wedding cheer;
O Clifford, but bethink thee once again,
pox on't! I had rather not be so noble as I am;
How holily he works in all his business!
My uncle's will in this respect is mine:
And had his highness in his infancy
And, when my face is cover'd, as 'tis now,
Will you? I shall but lend my diamond till your
Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
Was the crown offered him thrice?
I shall yield up my crown, let him be hang'd.
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee!
No bourn 'twixt his and mine, yet were it true
I cannot come to Cressid but by Pandar;
A most unnoble swerving.
But you the best. Pages and lights, to conduct
and thou shalt be welcome.
know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of
I should repent the evils I have done:
As all the world is cheered by the sun,
Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
We will do it.
Exit CINNA
It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads,
Stay'd me a prisoner in my chamber when
And to be a soldier?
And come yourselves, and bring Messala with you
And then we will deliver you the cause,
Say, I will love her everlastingly.
Think you not that the powers we bear with us
What time we will our celebration keep
Of such as have before endured the like.
Have done, for more I hardly can endure.
Whose welcome, I perceived, had poison'd mine,--
Nay, good Ajax.
I'll sauce them: they have had my house a week at
Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax.
Out of the dukedom and confer fair Milan
will do it in action as we will do it before the duke.
Upon this fairest prisoner.
Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
Whereof their mother daintily hath fed,
Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
Or like a star disorb'd? Nay, if we talk of reason,
Exit GLOUCESTER. QUEEN MARGARET drops her fan
Ah, that my fear were false! ah, that it were!
I would the college of the cardinals
Will you to Scone?
If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
And in that paste let their vile heads be baked.
And, madam, there is order ta'en for you;
With bitter fasts, with penitential groans,
thou art a man!
Go we, as well as haste will suffer us,
Hath he never heretofore sounded you in this business?
For I am she, and altogether joyless.
place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess
And for his sake I wish the having of it;
Their natures and preformed faculties
Whatever fortune stays him from his word:
Slandering a prince deserves it.
What many men desire! that 'many' may be meant
I will not ask again. Close villain,
Shook down my mellow hangings, nay, my leaves,
Re-enter TROILUS
Of man and country.
That makes himself, but for our honour therein,
Shall not in their issue stand;
Living to time.
'Well, well!' why, have you any discretion? have
For nature to endure.
I cry you mercy, madam; was it you?
'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
This Charmian lived but now; she stood and spake:
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
Come, will this wood take fire?
No, no, my lord,
But were I not the better part made mercy,
Hark, they roar!
And it shall be as all the ocean,
To what infectiously itself affects,
A murderer and a villain;
I think that thou art just and think thou art not.
Is this the generation of love? hot blood, hot
The battle continues; the Britons fly; CYMBELINE is  taken: then enter, to his rescue, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
That's not so, sir: we are your enemies.
He did receive his letters, and is coming;
Who is't that can inform me?
Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint
To bring forth this discovery. Seek these suitors:
Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.
They surfeited with honey and began
Hear no more of you. This the Dauphin speaks.
May not be punish'd with my thwarting stars,
this is the glove of Alencon, that your majesty is
Upon Good-Friday and ne'er broke his fast:
I am content.
Exeunt ANTONIO and PANTHINO
teaches him to hick and to hack, which they'll do
Who  but to-day hammer'd of this design,
Enter FLAVIUS in a cloak, muffled
Untimely comes this hurt: give me your arm.
Most honourably doth unhold his word.
Die quoth-a? Now gods forbid! I have a gown here;
And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
'Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower:
scold with her. She told me, not thinking I had been
tell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.
Now will we take some order in the town,
perfect yellow.
And he is welcome. What! is this the man?
You'll cry for this, minion, if I beat the door down.
For blessed are the peacemakers on earth.
Of present dues: the future comes apace:
It useth an enforced ceremony.
The great Apollo suddenly will have
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
We, ignorant of ourselves,
My tears that fall
Enter Soldier
Dost thou forget
Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,
I'll catch it ere it come to ground:
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?
Peace, peace! forbear:
Sir, spare your threats:
And I shall.
Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields.
[Aside]  No question of that; for I have seen him
wear it in his cap: I promised to strike him, if he
All gold and silver rather turn to dirt!
it at heart! Pray God, he be not bewitched!
The large Achilles, on his press'd bed lolling,
Re-enter WARWICK and others, bearing GLOUCESTER'S body on a bed
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.
I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
Beheld them, when they lighted, how they clung
It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
Cut thread and thrum;
Gentle breath of yours my sails
will not, come when you are next prepared for.
I have said.
With their superfluous riots, hear these tears!
Than plural faith which is too much by one:
And dupp'd the chamber-door;
The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
It is my office; and, madam, pardon me.
Have earnestly implored a general peace
'tis turned to a rusty armour.
The eye of reason may pry in upon us:
O that there were some virtue in my tears,
That I think honourable: therefore mark my counsel,
Scratch my head Peaseblossom. Where's Mounsieur Cobweb?
Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald and therefore
Weakness possesseth me, and I am faint.
The tenor of them doth but signify
His captain, steward, deputy-elect,
Out of the Duke of Buckingham.
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
This day, in argument upon a case,
Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
Hail to your grace!
At your sweet pleasure, for the mountain.
Submit thee, boy.
musty room, comes me the prince and Claudio, hand
All other doubts, by time let them be clear'd:
My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress;
That, by and by, disguised they will be here.
But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten,
And let his very breath, whom thou'lt observe,
With any just reproach?
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
No; Publius and Sempronius, you must do it;
O Cressida! but that the busy day,
[Within]  Can you tell for whose sake?
But till the troops come by,
I will not speak a word!
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
Give me a sword, I'll chop off my hands too;
the devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion
Think not, although in writing I preferr'd
To Tenedos they come;
There must I be unloosed, although not there
Keep a gamester from the dice, and a good student
Bid me do any thing but that, sweet Greek.
What wheels? racks? fires? what flaying? boiling?
Her father. I'll do something--
Through Alexandria make a jolly march;
Groan! why, no.
I embrace these conditions; let us have articles
And with my sword I'll keep this door safe.
'Twixt two such shes would chatter this way and
Enter another Gentleman
Cheque'd like a bondman; all his faults observed,
And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue.
He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes.
hath the worser sole. This shoe, with the hole in
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
But great men tremble when the lion roars;
In all this noble bevy, has brought with her
Exit
Hangs upon mine eyes: let me rest.
Saint Alban.
Henry is dead and never shall revive:
I see no reason but supposed Lucentio
Allaying both their fury and my passion
Sir, you of Troy, call you yourself AEneas?
by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty
The castle royally is mann'd, my lord,
I'll do it in my shirt.
which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
Never, my lord; therefore prepare to die.
My lord?
we'll be all three sworn brothers to France: let it
For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne,
Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger
Why, he that's tied here, Crab, my dog.
All the water in Wye cannot wash your majesty's
The danger formerly by me rehearsed.
And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.
Why, well;
And rise created princely Duke of York.
blame her then, being a maid yet rosed over with the
But always hath been just and virtuous
Her army is moved on.
Where valiant Talbot above human thought
Why speak'st thou not? what ransom must I pay?
And calls herself Revenge, and thinks me mad:
Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand,
Sweet is the country, because full of riches;
left to protest.
And none but he, to marry with Nan Page.
Here's Lucentio,
Stabs him
Cannot once start me.
Exit
Then, Timon, presently prepare thy grave;
So Suffolk had thy heavenly company:
Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth?
In dignity, and for the liberal arts
And humming water must o'erwhelm thy corpse,
He's a god or a painter; for he makes faces.
very fear.
Go to: what quality are they of? Elbow is your
One that still motions war and never peace,
For, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die.
All strange and terrible events are welcome,
gentleman or other shall 'scape a predestinate
Let me speak proudly: tell the constable
[Kneeling]          I am down again:
wishes:'--her very phrases! By your leave, wax.
Sorrow and grief of heart
He will make you a hundred and fifty pounds jointure.
And give me signs of future accidents.
To fright them, ere destroy. But come in:
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
price of hogs: if we grow all to be pork-eaters, we
And wild amazement hurries up and down
Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
And what may make him blush in being known,
Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these
They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,
O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!
And dare, upon the warrant of my note,
What is't you say?
Is dear Lavinia, dearer than my soul.
The instances that second marriage move
ACT II
thing, if men were as they have been. Get this done
morning you could not see to wipe my shoes.
Deliver'd, by the holy gods,
that they speak i' the nose thus?
endless liar, an hourly promise-breaker, the owner
But thus his simple truth must be abused
ARIEL sings and helps to attire him
He that has and a little tiny wit--
By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn
To see what this child does, and praise my Maker.
[Within]  Away, you rogue, away! I am sleepy.
You have great reason to do Richard right;
the lime of good neighbours. If a man do not erect
Exceedingly well read, and profited
March on, my fellows:
No, none by me.
No shame but mine: I must, forsooth, be forced
et cetera. Do this.
O, pardon me that I descend so low,
With surety stronger than Achilles' arm
O, Glendower.
Yet cease your ire, you angry stars of heaven!
Fie, Publius, fie! thou art too much deceived;
That he seems rapt withal: to me you speak not.
Exeunt
Were't not that, by great preservation,
and did the third a blessing against his will; if
When that a ring of Greeks have hemm'd thee in,
Remember to have heard: man's nature cannot carry
I will not be put out of countenance.
What good could they pretend?
Exit Servant
So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf;
What's here? the portrait of a blinking idiot,
Thine enmity's most capital: thou barr'st us
Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
And call it excellent: thou wast told thus;
Convey'd himself as heir to the Lady Lingare,
More than my father's skill, which was the greatest
and leave us.
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
The treason that my haste forbids me show.
with a grace?
Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served
Scattering flowers
but, I pray you, tell me, is my boy, God rest his
cudgel: it shall hang like a meteor o'er the
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,
I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you,
And brings the dire occasion in his arms
See you, my princes, and my noble peers,
Alas, has banish'd me his bed already,
This wide-chapp'd rascal--would thou mightst lie drowning
My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen,
Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the
We had a kind of light what would ensue:
That if one break, the other will hold; or, if both
purse. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a
Our griefs, and not our manners, reason now.
There was our error.
I greet your honours from Andronicus.
And when I told thee he was of my counsel
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.
The Dauphin crowned king! all fly to him!
Away! the tribunes do attend you: arm yourself
Methought you saw a serpent: what's in 'mother,'
Ask him his name and orderly proceed
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
To see thy son and heir more early down.
SCENE VII. The forest.
Doth all the winter-time, at still midnight,
Till they obey the manage. If we suffer,
But will you, then?
As our intents will need?
Alas, sir, I know not Jupiter; I never drank with him
Look here, I throw my infamy at thee
From plume-pluck'd Richard; who with willing soul
It signs well, does it not?
A daughter?
Which end o' the beam should bow. We have lost your
Huntsman, what say'st thou? wilt thou go along?
Enter PISTOL, Hostess, NYM, BARDOLPH, and Boy
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
The action of good women: there is hope
till some little time hath qualified the heat of
To kill their gracious father? damned fact!
But not a minute, king, that thou canst give:
With cheese and garlic in a windmill, far,
Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
displeasure.
Courageous Richmond, well hast thou acquit thee.
For they do prank them in authority,
Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us all,
Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
By your own true affections, and that your minds,
To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
Under the tide: but now I breathe again
Which we of taste and feeling are, for those parts that
have her first.' Such a maidenhead were no cheap
Who, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns
The gods revenge it upon me and mine,
For I must use thee.
It will not be avoided but by this.
How dost thou know that, constable?
Antony, thou wouldst say,--
For at Saint Mary's chapel presently
What art thou that dost grumble there i' the straw?
Where is my wife?
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
Signior, hang! base muleters of France!
Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness:
When he, conjunct and flattering his displeasure,
O Lord, I would it had been two!
To wit, an indigested and deformed lump,
Fie, brother, fie! teach her not thus to lay
How will my wife for slaughter of my son
Signifying nothing.
Our lack is nothing but our leave; Macbeth
Exit
A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar,
You'll think it strange if I should marry her.
As you think meet. Most wretched queen!
Is often laudable, to do good sometime
Peace, peace!
How do I thank thee, that this carnal cur
Stand fast, and wear a castle on thy head!
A beastly ambition, which the gods grant thee t'
Done to me, undeserving as I am,
Where have you this? 'tis false.
Made peace enmity, fair love of hate,
Enter the BASTARD and HUBERT, severally
A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
Nay, nay, let Rape and Murder stay with me;
Free from oppression or the stroke of war,
Father, I may not wish the fortune thine;
How now, my lords! what, all unready so?
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
Will you be ruled by me?
That shall express my true love's fasting pain.
Saying, 'What lack you?' and 'Where lies your grief?'
The noble Brutus, thrusting this report
By ought that I can speak in his dispraise,
That he approves the common liar, who
And in submission will attend on her.
But with a noble fury and fair spirit,
That ever was survey'd by English eye,
And I--God bless the mark!--his Moorship's ancient.
Ha, thou mountain-foreigner! Sir John and Master mine,
To LONGAVILLE
Fair Philomela, she but lost her tongue,
I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot,
I'll pawn the little blood which I have left
I hope well of to-morrow; and will lead you
altogether governed by humours. Lie still, ye thief,
In Parthia did I take thee prisoner;
So your dislike, to whom I would be pleasing,
Which this man's life did owe you, you'll rejoice
her to try with main-course.
'Twould be too tedious to repeat;
Will have fulfill'd their secret purposes;
I'll never tell you.
Never in your life, I think; unless you see canary
Where zeal strives to content, and the contents
That I may compass yours.
Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
Is arming, weeping, cursing, vowing vengeance:
As all impediments in fancy's course
Charm ache with air and agony with words:
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
What best is boded me to mischief! I
Ay, so I think.
And you, my lords, methinks you do not well
That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
No more, no more: worse than the sun in March,
Some other give me thanks for kindnesses;
Walks apart
And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is
Give your men the charge; we must be brief.
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
Come, away!
Exeunt Citizens
An earnest conjuration from the king,
May I be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it?
uncleanly, if courtiers were shepherds.
And you that love the commons, follow me.
But there is little reason in your grief;
Hum! I guess at it.
will make them acquainted with your purpose, and I
Confess the truth, and say by whose advice
He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal.
My arm is sore; best play with Mardian.
I pray you, sir, hold your hand.
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
Chastisement!
fall in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as
My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword
Sing, siren, for thyself and I will dote:
Let me not be pent up, sir: I will fast, being loose.
For Christian service and true chivalry,
The foulness is the punishment. I presume
And when I give occasion of offence,
And that you'll say, ere half an hour pass.
Now, for I know the Breton Richmond aims
Why then, my horns are his horns, whether I wake or sleep.
What think you of this fool, Malvolio? doth he not mend?
To do observance to a morn of May,
Farewell, hostess.
The heads of the maids?
And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
First Murderer appears at the door
And, hark, what discord follows! each thing meets
yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime
After my death the one half of my lands,
And darts his light through every guilty hole,
And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament,
'Tis a gentle man here--a plague o' these
Why came not the slave back to me when I called him.
To-morrow's vengeance on the head of Richard.
This night to meet here, they could do no less
Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong,
We shall hear more anon.
Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.
For with his soul fled all my worldly solace,
Ay. Fare you well, fair gentleman.
Chased us away; till, raising of more aid,
Swallows some
Exit
And am her knight by proof.
That stretch their duties nicely.
Lavinia, live; outlive thy father's days,
For once, upon a raw and gusty day,
That she shall have; besides an argosy
Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
I am Achilles.
But, leaving this, what is your grace's pleasure?
It was a gentle business, and becoming
But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
O then, belike, you fancy riches more:
lord: she is never sad but when she sleeps, and
Flutter'd your Volscians in Corioli:
yourself too much in the action, mounsieur; and,
Caius Marcius was
Yes, and a gentlewoman's son.
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
And I to Ford shall eke unfold
Which is most faint: now, 'tis true,
And whosoe'er gainsays King Edward's right,
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
For a more blustrous birth had never babe:
No more words: the clerk is answered.
To wage against thy enemies; nor fear to lose it,
For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue
less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter; and
You know the wager?
way: hark! you may know by their trumpets.
Being no further enemy to you
What stir is this? what tumult's in the heavens?
ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL yet,
As when mine empire was your fellow too,
garter up thy arms o' this fashion? dost make hose of
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, braving
And I can speak of the disturbances
Something mistaken in't.
Whither?
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
Deceived in thy integrity, deceived
Longer for him to make his rest.
High-stomach'd are they both, and full of ire,
Like to a double cherry, seeming parted,
O heaven! this is Mistress Anne Page.
souls, and you a curer of bodies; if you should
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
For I can no where find him like a man.
I hold my life as dear as you do yours;
Would I could meet that rogue Diomed! I would
If she sustain him and his hundred knights
horn-pipes. I must have saffron to colour the warden
faith, at the latter end of a sea-coal fire.
SCENE IV. A room in PAGE'S house.
Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
Not what you have reserved, nor what acknowledged,
O, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
I would break a thousand oaths to reign one year.
It may be I shall raise you by and by
Have done a drunken slaughter, and defaced
Sir, I know him, and I love him.
Doctor Caius,--
Owes nothing to thy blasts. But who comes here?
Once name you derogately, when to sound your name
As for her Greeks and Trojans suffer'd death.
How easy is it, then! Your constancy
These couchings and these lowly courtesies
I cannot tell.
Farewell, fa rewell!
All hail, the richest beauties on the earth!--
I have a man's mind, but a woman's might.
Some twenty years.
He dives into the king's soul, and there scatters
Longer than I prove loyal to your grace
Exit
If you go forward; therefore yield, or die.
All the best men are ours; for 'tis ill hap,
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself,
Two mightier troops than that the Dauphin led,
Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed.
Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.
This let alone will all the rest confound.
king Charles, and William de la Pole, Marquess of
Ay, my lord, this same.
My sighs and tears and will not once relent?
They shall stand for seed: they had gone down too,
Let thy song be love: this love will undo us all.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  As red as fire! nay, then
To weep is to make less the depth of grief:
Be opposite all planets of good luck
Bell rings
How needless was it then to ask the question!
For thou hast made it like an humble suppliant.
the flow o' the Nile
Indeed!
As thieves to keepers.
And presently go with me to my chamber,
This favour will I do you for his sake;
That thou hast wronged in the time o'erpast;
Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble,
Given ear to our complaint, of his great grace
To GONERIL
The good time of day to you, sir.
I kiss the instrument of their pleasures.
Send out more horses; skirr the country round;
Him and his innocent child: for which foul deed
And now I will unclasp a secret book,
Have I in such a prison.
Enter Host
Where, like a sweet melodious bird, it sung
Each part, deprived of supple government,
Be friends, you English fools, be friends: we have
If that be right which Warwick says is right,
to perform it.
[To the BASTARD]  Cousin, away for England!
In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
No woman may approach his silent court:
And prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
Exeunt
Such as befits the pleasure of the court?
The interim, by remembering you 'tis past.
How does your honour for this many a day?
We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
And gentlemen of blood and quality.
Upon whose age we void it up again,
their father,
Do bravely, horse! for wot'st thou whom thou movest?
This viperous slander enters. What cheer, madam?
No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
And that their measures are as excellent.
The heavens forbid
Taste your legs, sir; put them to motion.
And I will chain these legs and arms of thine,
Forgive a moiety of the principal;
I'll leave you, my sweet lady, for a while:
Before herself, almost at fainting under
Now, masters, draw.
Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd,
Was to be trusted with them.
I thought had been my lord.
And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour;
Well, so it stands; and thus, I fear, at last
Know you any, Hero?
And if you break the ice and do this feat,
I would this music would come: I am advised to give
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
Should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss
My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
fellow met me on the way and told me I had unloaded
always count you my deer.
You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra.
Will never grant this forfeiture to hold.
So many weeks ere the poor fools will ean:
far out of his knowledge!
Re-enter WORCESTER
Tell him from his all-obeying breath I hear
No matter, then, who see it;
In love
His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
recovery of this drum, being not ignorant of the
LUCIUS, MARCUS, and the others descend
Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me,
Diseases have been sold dearer than physic,
Re-enter PISANIO and Ladies
The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes
DON
Virtue and cunning were endowments greater
To knaves and all approachers: 'tis most just
Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit,
It did take place, 'I do,' quoth he, 'perceive
Do you think there is truth in them?
The undoing of yourself: let the world see
He will recover straight: when he is gone,
Prithee, my king, be quiet. Seest thou here,
I am out o' friends, madam; and I hope to have
'O sir,' says answer, 'at your best command;
We'll sure provide: thou shalt have my best gown to
That nor my service past, nor present sorrows,
I shall remember this bold language.
She passes praise; then praise too short doth blot.
scruple of a scruple, no obstacle, no incredulous
I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did
A brace of draymen bid God speed him well
To question of his apprehension.
with so many talents.
Myself.
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
Lest I might anger thee.
And sent to warn them to his royal presence.
Confesses that she secretly o'erheard
But are my brother's powers set forth?
Will't please you walk aside?
lamed me, I shall beg with it from door to door.
There is some space.
And here I stand: judge, my masters.
While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne.
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
Nay; I beseech you, mark it well.
Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself:
Let his arms alone;
Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great
Lord Timon, hear me speak.
Exit with the body
to leave the dam.
come to him, at the first approach you must kneel,
But I will write again to Mantua,
He held me last night at least nine hours
Hark you, sir; you mean not her to--
His health is well sir.
I'll set her on;
Of his own doors being shut against his entrance.
It should be better he became her guest;
Nature and Fortune join'd to make thee great:
Must kiss their own feet.
So you may put a man in your belly.
Exit
Is fully out.
Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested,
Peace!
To youth and liberty.
That's my office.
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
are.
And they are all about his majesty.
No, my good lord; therefore be patient.
Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence,
You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
Here, take: the gods out of my misery
I barely gratify your love; they failing,
The offence is holy that she hath committed;
Farewell till soon.
That knows his valour, and knows not his fear,
Exit
Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
to meddle or make. You may be gone; it is not good
The winds and persecutions of the sky.
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
He is not lolling on a lewd day-bed,
Presently we'll try: come, let's away about it:
must give folks leave to prate: what, the good-jer!
Exeunt DUKE OF VENICE, Senators, Officers,  and c
The cardinal instantly will find employment,
Against these giddy loose suggestions:
But now, I tell thee--keep it to thyself--
fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
For by this knot thou shalt so surely tie
Look'd he or red or pale, or sad or merrily?
The more I love, the more he hateth me.
Why then your fears, which, as they say, attend
I swear to thee, by Cupid's strongest bow,
Now will it best avail your majesty
Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come,
and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the
And shrewd and froward, so beyond all measure
As thou hast done with me:--What, Jessica!--
your letter I am very sick: but in the instant that
Exit
think him as concave as a covered goblet or a
Troy in our weakness stands, not in her strength.
He was; I heard the proclamation:
But Montague is bound as well as I,
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
throstle sing, he falls straight a capering: he will
And you in love shall not deny me this.
But not without that harmful stroke, which since
Lo, I present your grace a traitor's head,
I'll hence to London on a serious matter:
Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues;
I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness,
Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
Isis, hear me this prayer, though thou deny me a
and father. This villain of mine comes under the
There's not a piece of feather in our host--
That I beheld:
What I told you then,
Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep,
unlawful solicitation; if not, assure yourself I
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
Takes off his crown
Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
Have a care of your entertainments: there is a
To the king's danger. Presently the duke
Than what befalls myself. You stand amazed;
a laced mutton, and she, a laced mutton, gave me, a
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust
May be the letter moved him;
Except my mistress.
I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand,
Between two blades, which bears the better temper:
The grappling vigour and rough frown of war
She comes more nearer earth than she was wont,
I must be here confined by you,
One desperate grief cures with another's languish:
Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia,
Perpend my words, O Signieur Dew, and mark;
We do not throw in unrespective sieve,
Cast on my noble father.
My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite
If I might in entreaties find success--
Like to a trusty squire did run away:
thou already, that seest not thy loss in
And as he saith, so say we all with him.
Will I withal endow a child of thine;
Which Pericles hath lost,
Because we ever have been near the king.
Imparts this; which if you, or stupefied
Clamour'd the livelong night: some say, the earth
And why, I pray you? Who might be your mother,
O, how hast thou with 'jealousy infected
Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray,
Behold thy fill.
Traitor, restore Lavinia to the emperor.
With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd:
Would testify, to enrich mine inventory.
Which now they hold by force and not by right;
My will to her consent is but a part;
So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
Your country's fat shall pay your pains the hire;
My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk;
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
soldier's, which is ambitious, nor the lawyer's,
O rare instinct!
Thou art a slave, whom Fortune's tender arm
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt;
Come, thou new ruin of old Clifford's house:
They play
to you: so you may continue and laugh at
The best persuasions to the contrary
But to confront the visage of offence?
Their scanted courtesy.
And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
It well may serve
Stay yet; hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
Well, be gone: I will not miss her.
So shall we stay, mocking intended game,
That every one her own hath garnished
lost mutton, nothing for my labour.
together, and fast it fairly out: our cakes dough on
And scarce can spare them.
In reason he should never come to heaven
Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemy
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE disguised, with four Soldiers with sacks upon their backs
I'll put it on.
kingdom is stronger than it was at that time; and,
He is very near by this: he was not three leagues off
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
With all these living in philosophy.
He bears the sentence well that nothing bears
For in the fatness of these pursy times
My lord and brother, God save you!
And I, my royal sovereign.
Became the next day's master, till the last
Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
And, Proteus, we dare trust you in this kind,
Dishonour'd thus, and challenged of wrongs?
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I
Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
Well, then, no more but this: go, gentle Catesby,
Cannot my body nor blood-sacrifice
That wear upon your virgin branches yet
Cries 'come' to him that instantly must die.
cap. By my troth, I am sick.
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
I will not give my part of this sport for a pension
Devise but how you'll use him when he comes,
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Give me my armour.
So, so;
As hateful as Cocytus' misty mouth.
Heart-hardening spectacles; tell these sad women
Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.
And I'll go to bed at noon.
Satisfy!
Where I have come, great clerks have purposed
And with a low submissive reverence
Play too, but so disgraced a part, whose issue
And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard?
Enter PARIS and HELEN, attended
Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief;
And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well:
Though women all above:
[Reads]            Hermione, queen to the worthy
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
That youth and observation copied there;
How he upbraids Iago, that he made him
My lord, I warrant you we will play our part,
Does the world go round?
cannot abide the old woman of Brentford; he swears
Perhaps you mark'd not what's the pith of all.
Moor-ditch?
And given way unto this course of fortune.
talkest thou nothing but of ladies?
these boots too: an they be not, let them hang
If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who
See what I do deliver out to each,
Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand
As stout and proud as he were lord of all,
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
Why do the emperor's trumpets flourish thus?
Shall see this, and bless heaven.
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
It seems his sleeps were hinder'd by thy railing,
Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
impudent nation. Fare ye well, sir; I am for France
With meditating that she must die once,
piece of Eve's flesh as any in Illyria.
I prithee, do not strive against my vows:
Is quite forgot. He was a queen's son, boys;
Bardolph, I say,--
Here is to Caesar!
To LUCIO
I'll to the king; and signify to him
Sit with my cousin; lend him your kind pains
Our greatest friends attend us.
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
occupation; have at it with you.
distract it with many, either to have it sterile
With mine own breath release all duty's rites:
Madam, my former suit: I do beseech you
I wish you well, and so I take my leave.
Upon my life, my lord, I'll under-take it;
It was the swift celerity of his death,
As I had made my meal, and parted
Boyet, prepare; I will away tonight.
Most humbly therefore bending to your state,
Help me away, dear Charmian; I shall fall:
Does he not wear a great round beard, like a
I heard not of it before.
Like hardiment Posthumus hath
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks
And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!
Edward the Third, he bids you then resign
the desire of the penitent to be so bared before his
I go, I go.
By giving liberty unto thine eyes;
Edmund Mortimer, My lord of York and Owen Glendower?
'The hobby-horse is forgot.'
O, shall I say, I thank you, gentle wife?
mine, twice or thrice in that last article.
Should nothing privilege him, nor partialize
And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor,
Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.
Let us make ready straight.
Here's the smell of the blood still: all the
It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth,
Your grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
An ordinary groom is for such payment.
a good silling, I warrant you, or I will change it.
Are making hither with all due expedience
As will the rest, so willeth Winchester.
O, fie, fie, fie!
I sought a husband, in which labour
The matter?
Let's write good angel on the devil's horn:
That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state;
Ah, that this sight should make so deep a wound,
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
Murder!
Men's natures wrangle with inferior things,
My husband bids me; now I will unmask.
For ever, and for ever, farewell, Cassius!
On silly women or poor passengers.
Unless your thoughts went on my way.
Graces her subjects, and her thoughts the king
To our most fair and princely cousin Katharine;
Marcius, his name?
It is a branch and parcel of mine oath,
Is it possible he should know what he is, and be
The prince your son, with mere conceit and fear
We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good,
This being granted in course,--and now follows
That will be given to the loudest noise we make.
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
In strange eruptions; oft the teeming earth
Lay hands upon him.
Unless I have mista'en his colours much,
Thou shouldest strike him.
And so wast thou, Lord Hastings, when my son
And on my face he turn'd an eye of death,
Craft against vice I must apply:
That I was worse than nothing; for, indeed,
We have met with foes
blackberries? a question not to be asked. Shall
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
O reverend tribunes! O gentle, aged men!
Perhaps he sees it not; or his good nature
'Tis not his fault, the spark.
Stand I before thee here. Then if thou hast
and one thing more, that you be never so hardy to
Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
But, since you make your pleasure of your pains,
Or is the adder better than the eel,
I'll to the friar, to know his remedy:
So had you need:
the gods had made thee poetical.
With toss-pots still had drunken heads,
a-foot.' What say you to that?
Not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the
Set on; and leave no ceremony out.
Go home, John Rugby; I come anon.
Whose thankless natures--O abhorred spirits!--
Without apparent hazard of his life.
But, see, I am prevented.
[Reads]  'that unlettered small-knowing soul,'--
Madam, he hath not slept tonight; commanded
Another of his fathom they have none,
Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice;
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
And many such-like liberties of sin:
Hark! he is arrived.
Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate.
kernel out of a pomegranate; you are a vagabond and
Death of thy soul! those linen cheeks of thine
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
Equal with wondering: what of her ensues
Too dull for your good wearing?
Her face the book of praises, where is read
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
Videsne quis venit?
That I must die here and live hence by truth?
already in the field.
Under his own vine, what he plants; and sing
I would land-damn him. Be she honour-flaw'd,
Oh, who shall hinder me to wail and weep,
That I had no angry wit to be a lord.
Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
If we be not, show us the hand of God
Enter FRIAR JOHN
What means this, my lord?
He doth me wrong to feed me with delays.
O, you, my lord? by Mars his gauntlet, thanks!
With an aspect more favourable. Good my lords,
In honourable fashion.
Things have been strangely borne. The
Within their innocent alabaster arms:
And thus I cured him; and this way will I take upon
Philip of France, if thou be pleased withal,
Thou makest me merry; I am full of pleasure:
them to a dog for a new-year's gift. The rogues
know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
What say you to it? will you again unknit
Exit
Doubt it not, worthy lord.
His jest will savour but of shallow wit,
most potent in potting: your Dane, your German, and
And brought in matter that should feed this fire;
Hence, pack! there's gold; you came for gold, ye slaves:
I dare be sworn
To whom?
That sun, I pray, may never set! I have told him
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
contrary. O Mistress Page, give me some counsel!
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Know Banquo was your enemy.
What find I here?
Or else were this a savage spectacle:
The offers we have sent you.
To a mother's part belongs. He turns away:
In their sweet bosoms, that never war advance
Fie, what a slug is Hastings, that he comes not
Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more:
Then lend the eye a terrible aspect;
pity to cast them away for nothing; though, between
increase and there was never virgin got till
I have some business.
How lost thou them? Thy name, my most kind virgin?
It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant
All his tricks founder, and he brings his physic
I think her old familiar is asleep:
Was deep-sworn faith, peace, amity, true love
Sir Nathaniel, haud credo.
Stay, madam; here is more belongs to her;
To the last penny; 'tis the king's: my robe,
To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits.
That were unworthy to behold the same?
[Aside]  'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
No, no.
Upon his royal face there is no note
The heavens have thought well on thee Lafeu,
Nor tent to bottom that. But speak.
Behold the ordnance on their carriages,
[Aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
Take your rapier, Jack; I vill tell you how I vill kill him.
Come down upon us with a mighty power,
Saying, I liked her ere I went to wars.
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
Mocking the air with colours idly spread,
What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
Call it so.
Of damned witchcraft, and that have prevail'd
Villains, set down the corse; or, by Saint Paul,
When I have said, make answer to us both.
Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
Exit
Shall sleep no more; Macbeth shall sleep no more.'
Nay, I'll watch you for that; and that's one of the
and such like, the spice and salt that season a man?
But do not love thyself; then thou wilt keep
Make the gruel thick and slab:
A franklin's housewife.
O, this is full of pity! Sir, it calls,
Exeunt
Enter PHILEMON
Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.
My ears are stopt and cannot hear good news,
Round about her tomb they go.
Tell me, my friend, art thou the man that slew him?
How now! art thou mad?
Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
Ah, Warwick! Montague hath breathed his last;
Speak less than thou knowest,
Where is thy master, Dromio? is he well?
Weeps over them and wrings his hapless hands
If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands!
as small as a wand: this hat is Nan, our maid: I
A mock is due. Will you walk on, my lord?
Give me thy hand. I do begin to have bloody thoughts.
This music crept by me upon the waters,
Blow me into abhorring! rather make
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Thy womb let loose, to chase us to our graves.
wages. She hath more qualities than a water-spaniel;
For she's not froward, but modest as the dove;
Must court'sy at the censure:--O boys, this story
Thy father, Minos, that denied our course;
That it would please thee leave these sad designs
Subscribed by the consuls and patricians,
That no king can corrupt.
To say 'she is a goodly lady,' and
As Ovid be an outcast quite abjured:
The church! where is it? Had not churchmen pray'd,
These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
The French and English, there miscarried
From the spongy south to this part of the west,
It will not be: retire into your trenches:
Could man so blench?
O, prepare it!
So, lie thou there: die thou, and die our fear;
To PERICLES
In heavy satisfaction and would never
Your eyes are lode-stars; and your tongue's sweet air
Exit THYREUS
[To ROBIN]  Hold, sirrah, bear you these letters tightly;
no money at all and a little more wit, return again to Venice.
'Tis his description.
Whether hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
See where he is, who's with him, what he does:
With all graces wide-enlarged:
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house,
Look to the lady:
Great and increasing: but by sea
In, in, in, in!
Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof,
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
And you shall find me, wretched man, a thing
The cannons have their bowels full of wrath,
To the under generation, you shall find
I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,
Exit
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
Enter CAPULET
I do believe 'twas he.
A sennet sounded. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK  ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MECAENAS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MENAS, with other captains
learned from my entertainment. What I am, and what I
What, strike his wife!
The head and he shall louse;
Somewhither would she have thee go with her.
I muse my Lord of Gloucester is not come:
Pray heaven it be not so, that you have such a man
Exeunt
Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue.
Exit
That Rome can make against them.
Enclosed were they with their enemies:
a green-a box: do intend vat I speak? a green-a box.
RICHARD
Third son to the third Edward King of England:
And make the cowards stand aloof at bay:
heart, you brew good ale.'
For friendly counsel cuts off many foes.
A most delicious banquet by his bed,
How the young whelp of Talbot's, raging-wood,
Comes at the last and with a little pin
Never to lie and take his natural rest
Yea, or to-night.
Shalt stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk, and in Kent,
Hath won the greatest favour of the commons,
Go, and be free again, as Suffolk's friend.
Do but hear me, sir.
speech we had to such a purpose.
will die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere
I long
And by his hollow whistling in the leaves
wit-crackers cannot flout me out of my humour. Dost
Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
Sir, you cannot.
That makes these odds all even.
Please it your majesty to give me leave,
As I live,
Lend me your hand.
Where's Alexas?
Prithee, be silent, boy; I profit not by thy talk:
Caesar hath sent--
Who having, by their own importunate suit,
Where is our usual manager of mirth?
Where's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? both?
Shall I tell you why?
Let us do so: for we are at the stake,
We'll keep him here: then what is that to him?
Flourish. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, with other Lords, and Attendants
called so in mine own house before.
He would embrace the means to come by it.
Come, come, beshrew your heart! you'll ne'er be good,
hang'd first.
'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
With these forced thoughts, I prithee, darken not
Are you meditating on virginity?
Can sick men play so nicely with their names?
Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;
Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou
sufferance.
And therefore we must needs admit the means
Fly further off, my lord, fly further off;
Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
'Remember now my brother.'
Yes, sir, I have indeed.
female,--which in the common is woman; which
And cannot help the noble chevalier:
Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city:
ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest
Within her womb; which, for enlargement striving,
swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English.
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
kingdom with a dagger of lath, and drive all thy
Alarum continues still afar off
Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy! This is
Muse not that I thus suddenly proceed;
I had rather thou shouldst live while nature will
In thy opinion which is worthiest love?
Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.
Art thou to break into this woman's mood,
They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness.
Exeunt
to me and say, after to-morrow, 'This is my glove,'
That make their looks by his; he was not merry,
Both her sweet hands, her tongue, and that more dear
Join with the traitor, and they jointly swear
My tears are now prevailing orators.
Might liquid tears or heart-offending groans
Come, come, take it up.
Prithee, come hither: what fair lady's that?
Come, Kate, we'll to bed.
unto whom I was going; I shall there have money, or
Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca;
To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
Exit DIOMEDES; ULYSSES and TROILUS following
And either [         ] the devil, or throw him out
To beaten Douglas; and the Earl of Athol,
You know the peril.
pumps; meet presently at the palace; every man look
Thou friend of an ill fashion!
Now thou art come unto a feast of death,
Incensed the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures,
His heart and hand both open and both free;
We three here art that ne'er shall meet again.
Go thou, and fill another room in hell.
thy life: all thy safety were remotion and thy
As I do now: for whiles this honest fool
I do not know the man I should avoid
Lady, with me, with me thy fortune lies.
For in my gallery thy picture hangs:
terms: that is the humour of it.
And to rebuke the usurpation
Stephano is my name; and I bring word
Thou art a Roman; be not barbarous:
As common bruit doth put it.
Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars,
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
But saying o'er what I have said before:
Are they not now upon the western shore.
Rather, lost more. And by this hand I swear,
A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.
He whined and roar'd away your victory,
She's none of mine, my lord.
Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman,
If but one of his pockets could speak, would it not
child! look thee here; take up, take up, boy;
Good dawning to thee, friend: art of this house?
Ourself the merchant, and this sailing Pandar
than a fellow, look you now, of no merits, he is
That this shall be, or we will fall for it?
I speak my good lord cardinal to this point,
Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death:
Your kingdom's terror and black Nemesis?
Enter SHYLOCK, SALARINO, ANTONIO, and Gaoler
direct them the way I am going, but such as wink and
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
That I have reconciled your friends and you.
His soul and body to their lasting rest.
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
But God be thanked for prevention;
And guardian of their bones.
Writings all tending to the great opinion
A drum, a drum!
in his jealousy till now.
What, are we cuckolds ere we have deserved it?
ACT II
Throw up thine eye! see, see what showers arise,
aspect to the hot breath of Spain; who sent whole
As you were fore-advised, had touch'd his spirit
Hark!
Show minutes, times, and hours: but my time
The whilst their own birds famish in their nests:
Yea, my good lord.
Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves?
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
And that to the infection of my brains
Now, for our consciences, the arms are fair,
Unspeak mine own detraction, here abjure
Well, let's away, and say how much is done.
What Venus did with Mars.
DON
I would not see't.
But thou must needs be sure
I would not care, I then would be content,
Or shall we play the wantons with our woes,
Anon do meet the senate.
To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how
Between them they will kill the conjurer.
If we should serve with horse and mares together,
I will attend the queen.
Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but I
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
As our best-moving fair solicitor.
Which, for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise,
Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
Come on: since the youth will not be entreated, his
For we will hear, note and believe in heart
No, nor never shall do in such a place as this, she
drums! Only to seem to deserve well, and to
With that malignant cause wherein the honour
I will do so: till then, think of the world.
Much!
What tumult's this?
enough to make such knaveries yours.
Re-enter CASSIO, driving in RODERIGO
In sweet music is such art,
you do not use me with that affability as in
Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny,
Knowing that thou wouldst have me drown'd on shore,
He fighteth as one weary of his life.
The senate's courtesy? Let deeds express
Have by my hands of life bereaved him.
And I beseech you, let not his report
By and by.
Enter PISANIO, with a letter
With fury from his native residence.
Isabel,
Thus plated in habiliments of war,
Your noble emperor and his lovely bride,
Masters, I am to discourse wonders: but ask me not
Let us first see peace in Athens: there is no time
With oaths of love, at last, if promise last,
Valentine's page; and sent, I think, from Proteus.
Thus may we gather honey from the weed,
My earnest-gaping sight of thy land's view,
I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair.
That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
It is so, indeed; he is no less than a stuffed man:
The sacred storehouse of his predecessors,
One speak for both. What would you?
Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall want
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
The obligation of our blood forbids
bountiful to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you,
No farther, sir; a man may rot even here.
You have tripp'd since.
How to get clear of all the debts I owe.
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
Didst note it?
And treats of Tereus' treason and his rape:
A woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light.
I will not harbour in this town to-night:
Bid them wash their faces
Remember what I tell you.
His highness shall speak in, I do beseech
Enter SILVIA, attended
Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep:
bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation, 'Armigero.'
You that be noble; help him, young and old!
Enter the KING OF FRANCE, the DAUPHIN, the DUKE oF BOURBON, the Constable Of France, and others
would this be, if he durst steal any thing
And so did mine too, as the matter falls;
The lord be praised!
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me!
again: but, as they say to hear music the general
That makes thee strangle thy propriety:
And with such sober and unnoted passion
Enter CLIFFORD and YOUNG CLIFFORD
Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are ye undone? No, ye
Which way thou travellest: if along with us,
For showing me again the eyes of man!
To do my work with haste.
My talk to thee must be how Benedick
'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp;
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
Ere bloody hands were wash'd, with such a peace.
currish thanks is good enough for such a present.
They have dispatch'd with Pompey, he is gone;
So, now go tell, an if thy tongue can speak,
And purchase friends and give to courtezans,
would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
At thy affections, which do hold a wing
The devil himself could not pronounce a title
rest so laughed, that it passed.
To myself nothing. Speak the truth, Seleucus.
How now, my sweet creature of bombast!
Am I your bird? I mean to shift my bush;
With twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths.
What, would you bury him in my despite?
like draught-oxen and make you plough up the wars.
Sirs, stop his mouth, and let him speak no more.
He found it then;
And when she put it on, she made me vow
Know you this woman?
Saturn is dominator over mine:
thy services by leaving me now: the need I have of
With one 'We thank you' many thousands moe
Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?
Buckles in his sum of age;
Rings, jewels, any thing his rage did like.
Dispatch, my lord; the duke would be at dinner:
Marry, then, sweet wag, when thou art king, let not
latter end of a play, before the duke:
Come come, open the matter in brief: what said she?
And back to Athens shall the lovers wend,
You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you,
Consider then we come but in despite.
she will: and truly she deserves it; for if there
Exeunt
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
The best and truest;
Exit
Thy brother Marcus tenders on thy lips:
Re-enter TITINIUS, with MESSALA
How goes our reckoning?
Thou art no soldier.
As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord.
against us.
me: I'll tell you strange things of this knave
the duke hath dined. Get your apparel together,
Of Lewis the Dauphin and that lovely maid:
Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold:
This speedy and quick appearance argues proof
Andronicus, I do not flatter thee,
I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear;
To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,
Against the envy of less happier lands,
Beat him enough: after a little time
Of double ducats, stolen from me by my daughter!
Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
Like to a duchess, and Duke Humphrey's lady;
There,--on my conscience, put unwittingly?
fair. The assault that Angelo hath made to you,
By reason guide his execution.
My lord, you are unjust, and, more than so,
My Regan counsels well; come out o' the storm.
I can no more.
Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
Most choice, forsaken; and most loved, despised!
What you have charged me with, that have I done;
My brother wears thee not the one half so well
Exit Servant
The Duke of Exeter is as magnanimous as Agamemnon;
SCENE V. Another room in LEONATO'S house.
With his face backward. In humane gentleness,
Before you venture for me. I could teach you
You fur your gloves with reason. Here are
hope, sir, if you thrive, you'll remember from
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
That one of two bad ways you must conceit me,
My lord, here stays without
No, sir; he stays for you to conduct him thither.
Call him in.
As it were sin to doubt--that love this painting
Think upon Vaughan, and, with guilty fear,
excellent stomach.
equally to me disloyal.'
Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold:
And there repose: a turn or two I'll walk,
It shall be so: I'll send her to my house,
sweet sorrow,
a boot is here with this exchange! Sure the gods do
I did not see him since.
ANTIPHOLUS
Thy business?
Nine changes of the watery star hath been
I prithee, tell me what thou thinkest of me.
Like Patience gazing on kings' graves, and smiling
What art thou, Greek? art thou for Hector's match?
If he may be repeal'd, to try his honour.
Had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
But give me leave to try success, I'ld venture
I cannot tell
Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction,
At your service.
This honourable bounty shall belong:
Follow your function, go, and batten on cold bits.
your thoughts be servants to you! Be comfortable
Prince Pericles, touch not, upon thy life.
are some brown, some black, some auburn, some bald,
Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies
Exeunt ESCALUS and Provost
Caesar and Lepidus
Exeunt
To sup with me to-morrow night. Away!
And faster bound to Aaron's charming eyes
Enter a Messenger
That power I have, discharge; and let them go
All on a heap, like to a slaughter'd lamb,
And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.
Makes a pass through the arras
O, I am known
Nay, he nods at us, as who should say, I'll be even
Fairness which strikes the eye--
Why, he had none.
He was gotten in drink: is not the humour conceited?
An enemy to my son. How now, Pisanio!
Let go thy hand.
I will help you, if I can:
O wonderful, when devils tell the truth!
I am much bounden to your majesty.
Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius,
But can you, if you would?
such proverb so little kin to the purpose.
Dexterously, good madonna.
What, in metre?
Hubert, keep this boy. Philip, make up:
When living blood doth in these temples beat,
For I am rightful heir unto the crown.
By history, report, or his own proof,
These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in
'Faith, I ran when I saw others run.
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
Look, where thy love comes; yonder is thy dear.
But let our plot go forward: let our wives
Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths;
Step forth mine advocate; at your request
And let me the canakin clink
To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose:
Three foot of it doth hold: bad world the while!
For my wounds' sake, to give their suffrage: please you
Ourself will mingle with society,
Alas!
Upon my faith and honour.
Let him know't.
could behold the sun with as firm eyes as he.
What makes this change?
As easily 'gainst our rocks: for joy whereof
Yea, say you so?
But if you have a stomach, to't i' God's name:
That basely fled when noble Talbot stood.
Come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf,
Thou villain base,
ANTIPHOLUS
My acts, decrees, and statutes I deny:
cross-gartered, even with the swiftness of putting
Southwark? I thought ye would never have given out
Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare,
A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds,
My lord, I did intend it.
Subdue him at his peril.
Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
Well, tell me now what lady is the same
And, noble signior,
Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phoenix;
With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,
bencher in the Capitol.
What manner of fellow was he that robbed you?
And by the worth and honour of himself,
The trumpets sound. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, appellant, in armour, with a Herald
'Tis time to give 'em physic, their diseases
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room:
Pauca verba, Sir John; goot worts.
Ay, all you have laid your heads together--
For you a mortal mineral; which, being took,
Enter VALENTINE and PROTEUS
So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart;
An you'll come to supper to-night, you may; an you
too, howsoever he hath had intelligence.
How is't, my soul? let's talk; it is not day.
Give me some music. Now, good morrow, friends.
Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town.
And to the strict'st decrees I'll write my name.
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and MENAS
Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again:
Enter GLOUCESTER, with a torch
The wheel is come full circle: I am here.
But what compact mean you to have with us?
My master's.
Slight thing of Italy,
The body of the country, city, court,
As shore of rock. Attend. This holy fox,
To be ungentle.
About that which concerns your grace and us;
By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I
If the duke with the other dukes come not to
the letter: she sends him on purpose, that I may
Exeunt PAULINA and Ladies, with HERMIONE
Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.
Betwixt ourselves and all our followers:
Aufidius got off.
That outward courtesies would fain proclaim
Than that which lives to fear: make it your comfort,
He attends your highness' pleasure.
Upon the stroke of four.
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
in the meat, and we will come in to dinner.
Merely, my lord.
Double, double toil and trouble;
A thing
that I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single
Join'd in commission with him; but either
Most high, most mighty, and most puissant Caesar,
To answer by the method, in the first of his heart.
Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS
Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar?
and body's fostering patron.'
besides, possessed with the glanders and like to mose
drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap
being gracious, than they are in losing them when
You are not wood, you are not stones, but men;
What means the nun? she dies! help, gentlemen!
Call'd Roderigo.
his company anatomized, that he might take a measure
'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them
Is it as he will? well then, France shall rue.
Ay me, what act,
Rightly reasoned, and in his own division: and, by
I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?
Thou fall'st a blessed martyr! Serve the king;
That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;
But curb it, spite of seeing. O, my lord,
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
The knight opposed.
Away with me in post to Ravenspurgh;
Enforce him with his envy to the people,
Enter ISABELLA and LUCIO
He means in flesh.
have daffed all other respects and made her half
O well done! I commend your pains;
To-morrow! O, that's sudden! Spare him, spare him!
Why, every day, to-morrow. Come, go in:
Enter a Messenger
rest of the herd to me that all their other senses
Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
Enter BERTRAM
DON
Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
Here sits a king more woful than you are.
Make me, that nothing have, with nothing grieved,
care of him.
SCENE II. The same.
No, I warrant you; I will not adventure
Thou mightst have sooner got another service:
Nor I.
To those have shut him up; which failing,
To make the base earth proud with kissing it:
Enter MENENIUS and SICINIUS
She'll with the labour end.
Had falsely thrust upon contrary feet,
Titania, music call; and strike more dead
'Sblood, you starveling, you elf-skin, you dried
And by and by my master drew on him;
A shrewd turn, and he is your friend for ever.'
raisins o' the sun.
But that myself should be the root and father
Do grace to Caesar's corpse, and grace his speech
Old Lady:	'Tis strange: a three-pence bow'd would hire me,
Under what title shall I woo for thee,
I'll get me such a colour'd periwig.
security enough to make fellowships accurst: much
Treason and murder ever kept together,
comfort of your young prince Mamillius: it is a
Surprise me to the very brink of tears:
Shall raise such artificial sprites
your servant.
She was false as water.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, HAMLET,  POLONIUS, LAERTES, VOLTIMAND, CORNELIUS, Lords, and Attendants
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
As under privilege of age to brag
speak with him till after dinner.
And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
Good madam, if by me you'll be advised,
You may imagine him upon Blackheath;
O, break! O, break!
Exit
Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer
Alas, my lord,
O, Nicholas Hopkins?
We shall further think on't.
To take the one the other, by some chance,
No more!
I will not speak with him; say I am sick:
But praying, to enrich his watchful soul:
Poor queen! how love to me and to her son
Enter HECATE to the other three Witches
Than a perpetual honour. Darest thou die?
His sword did ne'er leave striking in the field.
sins of my mother should be visited upon me.
I was sure your lordship did not give it me.
Heaven restore thee!
From princes into pages: all men's honours
To speak so indirectly I am loath:
I will make it good how you dare, with what you
Churchmen so hot? good uncle, hide such malice;
That hid the worse and show'd the better face.
Musing and sighing, with your arms across,
Let me be privileged by my place and message,
Who shall begin?
He talks to me that never had a son.
Re-enter BENEDICK
Doubt not that, if money and the season can yield
We have beat them to their beds. What, girl!
I will be satisfied; let me see it, I say.
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
There goes the Talbot, with his colours spread,
Sings
her belly already: tis yours.
I thank you, good people: there shall be no money;
Let's shut our gates and sleep: manhood and honour
By my heel, I care not.
Had time cohered with place or place with wishing,
Lest your retirement do amaze your friends.
So many guests invite as here are writ.
Stand you directly in Antonius' way,
Exit
married and have more occasion to know one another;
Trust not my reading nor my observations,
Thus, after greeting, speaks the King of France
woman after this downright way of creation: is it
What is the issue of the business there.
Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen,
Can I not say, I thank you? My better parts
Queen Hecuba and Helen.
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods:
My faculties nor person, yet will be
taking, I doubt me.
So follow, to be most unlike our courtiers,
At whose pleasure, friend
To say I have done no harm?
Never bestrid a horse, save one that had
Bid my guard watch; leave me.
warren: I told him, and I think I told him true,
For he was great of heart.
All may be well.
Wash'd me from shore to shore, and left me breath
In Pompey's porch: for now, this fearful night,
No, sir, I warrant you.
Been publicly accused, so shall she have
Enough, captain: you have astonished him.
Bold in the quarrel's right, roused to the encounter,
Tranio, be so, because Lucentio loves:
To hang thee on; or wouldst thou drown thyself,
At home, my lord.
ear can endure to hear. Thou hast appointed
Swum ashore. man, like a duck: I can swim like a
thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs, or
is something musty.
His outsides, to wear them like his raiment,
Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen,
Well, well: away!
You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant;
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanch?
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
Enter the BASTARD
Urged on the examinations, proofs, confessions
Marry, to--Come, captain, will you go?
the hands of one, as he thinks, the most brave,
Believe what?
Well, what was yours?
Take to you, as your predecessors have,
Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse.
Sir, my mistress sends you word
The nature of the sickness found, Ulysses,
My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have,
that let me inform you.
remain; but when you depart from me, sorrow abides
Stand up, good Canterbury:
Come challenge me, challenge me by these deserts,
Do we all holy rites;
And I to sigh for her! to watch for her!
The Fairies sing
Cold news, Lord Somerset: but God's will be done!
But beg one favour at thy gracious hand,
Not here in presence.
Enter HECTOR
Stabb'd by the selfsame hand that made these wounds!
Who!--nay, then: come, come, you'll do him wrong
impieties for the which they are now visited. Every
time; have napkins enow about you; here
In honour honesty, the tract of every thing
Away,
Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,
Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?
I have more care to stay than will to go:
Seize with thine eagle's talons.
Not from his mouth,
petitionary countrymen. The good gods assuage thy
'tis a playing-day, I see.
having received wrong by some person, is at most
Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?
Hear me, good madam.
'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
Let nature crush the sides o' the earth together
And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out!'
yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
Than thee with wantonness: now doth thy honour stand
S. Withold footed thrice the old;
Of a despised life closed in my breast
Enter SHYLOCK
heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no
At the discovery of most dangerous treason
Back'd by the power of Warwick, that false peer,
In undeserved extremes: see else yourself;
Friar Lodowick to be a dishonest person?
Then, farewell, heat, and welcome, frost!
fellows and betray themselves to every modern
myself, these gentlemen can witness! but I would
The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me.
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
Then lead me hence; with whom I leave my curse:
Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner?
sent to find those persons whose names are here
A time before we came unto this cell?
What have we here?
I haste now to my setting: I shall fall
Next to thyself and my young rover, he's
Myself in person will straight follow you.
Our separation so abides, and flies,
a week with bran and water.
will go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah; a
Dost thou deny thy father, cursed drab?
Than but once think this place becomes thee not.
perceive that a Jack guardant cannot office me from
And shall these labours and these honours die?
That I might so have rated my expense,
impaired, but all disordered. Who is next?
if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
Because thou see'st me dote upon my love.
DON
After the battle let George Stanley die.
Old Cassius still!
Let me love him for that, and do you love him
And at my suit, sweet, pardon what is past.
And now, like Ajax Telamonius,
She sings like one immortal, and she dances
Though far more cause, yet much less spirit to curse
Exeunt RATCLIFF and the other Attendants
That you might well enjoy her.
disgrace Hero before the whole assembly. and not marry her.
Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
Though justice be thy plea, consider this,
the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of
Forgot you! no, sir: I could not forget you, for I
Well said, brazen-face! hold it out. Come forth, sirrah!
I was seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with
Parolles, the gallant militarist,--that was his own
I've heard him utter to his son-in-law,
Leave me awhile.
No, by no means.
You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?
Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place.
A sight to vex the father's soul withal.
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
As broad and general as the casing air:
Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,
I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
O, where hath our intelligence been drunk?
Exeunt NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word,
His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able
The games are done and Caesar is returning.
But, fly I hence, I fly away from life.
letters of commendations to the king.
I bleed, sir; but not kill'd.
of England?
Where you shall hold your session. At this time
Exeunt
This was thy daughter.
way:
Away, get thee away; good friend, be gone:
By being once false for ever to be true
For wicked Cleon and his wife, when fame
deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket,
And a demand who is't shall die, I'd say
Has cluck'd thee to the wars and safely home,
think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
SCENE V. Lord Derby's house.
Our strong arms be our conscience, swords our law.
Exit
Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is
I'll be with you at your sheep-shearing too: if I
Have been consider'd and debated on.
Exeunt Hostess and Boy
Zounds! I was never so bethump'd with words
It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
The residence of Posthumus; so nigh at least
Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,
Would cry to a sailor, Go hang!
And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
When blows have made me stay, I fled from words.
When I shall meet him in the court of heaven
The height, the crest, or crest unto the crest,
That she would never put it from her finger,
With his next vantage.
Methinks, should not be chronicled for wise.
And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly.
In an imperial charge. But I shall crave
Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
And with the deepest malice of the war
Say she be mute and will not speak a word;
Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
Nay, my good soldier, up;
And now what rests but, in night's coverture,
Thy adversary's wife doth pray for thee.
Tongue, not a word:
The opposite of itself: she's good, being gone;
That can less hide his love or hate than he;
Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
Hark! now I hear them,--Ding-dong, bell.
The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury
Heaven, be thou gracious to none alive,
Which to reduce into our former favour
Without some pleasure now. What sport tonight?
three and twenty years.
To feast upon whole thousands of the French.
When most struck home, being gentle wounded, craves
First, provost, let me bail these gentle three.
Either be ruled by me, or I will make you--
Ay, what else? and but I be deceived
At some hours in the night spirits resort;--
The best and wholesomest spirts of the night
justice rails upon yond simple thief. Hark, in
Enter a troop of Citizens
Since I came to this isle: and in the morn
ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who,
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
It could not else be, I should prove so base,
Is that the worst this letter doth contain?
Much more a shrew of thy impatient humour.
He doth, my lord, and is become your foe.
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful
And say it is the queen and her allies
For man or master; then it follows thus;
Being counted falsehood, shall, as I express it,
I say, without characters, fame lives long.
Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well,
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
My father watches: O sir, fly this place;
Condemn the fault and not the actor of it?
Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich leas
Young Harry Percy and brave Archibald,
I am arrived for fruitful Lombardy,
Exit BARDOLPH
This is not she. O madness of discourse,
Shall manifest me rightly. Is it they?
Our souls religiously confirm thy words.
And he that will not follow Bourbon now,
For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
One grave shall be for both: upon them shall
You take my lord, I'll give him my commission
Good morrow, lord, good morrow.
Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen,
If there be ten, shrink not, but down with 'em.
Peace! she sings.
rhyme and reason, that they were fairies. See now
Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,
Do you not love me? do you not, indeed?
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation;
Or, guilty in defence, be thus destroy'd?
To ROSS and ANGUS
Exit Servant, with LUCENTIO and HORTENSIO, BIONDELLO following
Full of warm blood, of mirth, of gossiping.
The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,
A callat
Dies
Enter HAMLET, reading
of all treasons, we still see them reveal
My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
Of man and beast the infinite malady
That live and feed upon your majesty.
and had my pocket picked: this house is turned
They humbly sue unto your excellence
You made it known to us.
Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely,
There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
Madam, this glove.
And wilt thou have me?
Have given you here a third of mine own life,
Take not the quarrel from his powerful arm;
It shall be so.
And sell the mighty space of our large honours
commander; and that with his own hand he slew the
Whom I myself embrace, to set him free.
When I was with him I have heard him swear
Let them set on at once; for I perceive
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
Indeed, he should be a footman by the garments he
Placed in contempt! Farewell, fair cruelty.
the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty
reading it he changed almost into another man.
Which I can scarcely bear.
Methinks I see this hurly all on foot:
To let him live: where he arrives he moves
The tongues of soothers; but a braver place
Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks,
When thou liest howling.
My lord, his throat is cut; that I did for him.
Why, that they have; and bid them so be gone.
Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours!
Who craves to come aboard. What is your will?
Sola, sola!
For never henceforth shall I joy again,
on his head, bearing a long white wand, as
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, WESTMORELAND, EXETER, and the rest
Dare come about him.
Like to an enter'd tide, they all rush by
He speaks well.
Who, when he knows thou art the empress' babe,
acutely. I will return perfect courtier; in the
Pursuit would be but vain.
will seek satisfaction of you.
O, they are at it!
Thrusts forth his horns again into the world;
Enter CRESSIDA
They choose Ladies for the dance. KING HENRY VIII chooses ANNE
That nice-preserved honesty of yours.
Very well.
Exit
dat I shall have Anne Page for myself? By gar, I
What say'st thou, noble heart?
own fool's eyes peep.
He has no equal.
So would you be again to Henry,
And faints for succor.
I pray you, do.
a pin, if the other three were in. Here comes one
I fear 'tis deepest winter in Lord Timon's purse;
To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;
When we were chosen tribunes for the people,--
Pierce every sense about thee! Old fond eyes,
That's but a trifle here.
ones; but they are most of them means and bases; but
How say you? O, I should remember him: does he not
Exeunt
'The duke yet lives, that Henry shall depose;
bitterness.
As dogs upon their masters, worrying you.
An't had been a green hair, I should have laughed
Than history can pattern, though devised
What now?
Then, as in grateful virtue I am bound
Of the same house Publius and Quintus were,
Than we bring men to comfort them:
As is appointed us, at Shrewsbury.
conscience, there are verier knaves desire to live,
O illiterate loiterer! it was the son of thy
Lysander, look how I do quake with fear:
not; but thy intercepter, full of despite, bloody as
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
AEneas is a-field;
though we willingly consented to his banishment, yet
Exit
My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
Have I laid my brain in the sun and dried it, that
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
Did hate thee or thy father!
open. I will be proud, I will read politic authors,
believe it was done in fight, and persuaded us to do the like.
That warmer days would come: in these sear'd hopes,
O God, what mischiefs work the wicked ones,
And sing it like poor Barbara. Prithee, dispatch.
I have heard in some sort of thy miseries.
A wave o' the sea, that you might ever do
'Tribunes!' 'Patricians!' 'Citizens!' 'What, ho!'
In fellest manner execute your aims.
the guilt of premeditated and contrived murder;
To ruminate on this so far, until
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
sought for, in the great chamber.
Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear?
Good Marcius home again.
I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
Fortune brings in some boats that are not steer'd.
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
And pay the sum that may deliver me.
Plead you to me, fair dame? I know you not:
Drum and colours. Enter MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, and Soldiers
My duty to you both, on equal love,
That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
Read here, young Arthur.
And let us, Polydore, though now our voices
The evil that thou causest to be done,
Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious,
In double knavery--How, how? Let's see:--
They converse apart
A herald, ho, a herald!
Her assured credit. Blessed live you long!
To die for't!
Shall lodge thee till thy wound be thoroughly heal'd;
Farewell, kind neighbours: we wish'd Coriolanus
Re-enter ORLANDO, with ADAM
Exeunt IAGO and Attendants
In delay there lies no plenty;
And then with what haste you can get you to bed.
Now keep your holy word: go meet the French,
Unto my end of stealing them. But, gracious sir,
Come, your lord calls!
cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha' done
We in your motion turn and you may move us.
bravely marching, it hath served me instead of a
With its sweet air: thence I have follow'd it,
And corresponsive and fulfilling bolts,
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows;
And he that stands upon a slippery place
Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade,
And, live we how we can, yet die we must.
Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
Stay, and breathe awhile:
Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me;
Struck pale and bloodless; and thy brother, I,
According as your ladyship desired,
And in the wood, a league without the town,
And not the king exiled thee; or suppose
Petruchio, patience; I am Grumio's pledge:
I thank thee, good Tubal: good news, good news!
Young fry of treachery!
Rebellion in this land shall lose his sway,
Was not that letter from fair Jessica?
Nay, good lieutenant;
his spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
of silver: there would this monster make a
Your reconciler! Wars 'twixt you twain would be
SCENE V. Florence. Without the walls. A tucket afar off.
A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul
I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord:
Betideth here in absence of thy friend;
Threaten his bloody stage: by the clock, 'tis day,
while thou livest, keep a good tongue in thy head.
Enters the tomb
Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death
And, gladly quaked, hear more; where the
Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
I cannot love her, nor will strive to do't.
voutsafe me, look you, a few disputations with you,
With something rich about me: from that place
How many things by season season'd are
Exit
No, the world must be peopled. When I said I would
Will not bear question; either say thou'lt do 't,
With walking once about the quadrangle,
Who hath descried the number of the foe?
no greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath
Exit VAUX
But never taint my love. I cannot say 'whore:'
Your lord; myself and other noble friends,
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
And with my child my joys are buried.
Is gone to pray the holy king, upon his aid
So, thrice fair lady, stand I, even so;
Had challenged pity of them. Was this a face
And I, delivering you, am satisfied
I'll keep them all;
And yet methinks I do not like this tune.
For thine own bowels, which do call thee sire,
Prince, pardon me, or strike me, if you please;
And yet I would I had o'erlooked the letter:
Kill me to-morrow: let me live to-night!
Shall I speak a word in your ear?
Some touches of remorse? or is your blood
Either in hope or present, I'ld exchange
Fly with false aim; move the still-peering air,
DEMETRIUS throws the body of BASSIANUS into the  pit; then exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, dragging off LAVINIA
Speak, gentle sister, who hath martyr'd thee?
Yet surely Cassio, I believe, received
You must say 'paragon:' a paramour is, God bless us,
You spurn'd me such a day; another time
SCENE III. An ante-chamber of the QUEEN'S apartments.
I know 'tis he. We are held as outlaws: hence!
Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh.
No, boy, but as well as I can do them. Peace!
This accident is not unlike my dream:
Antony, and Potpan!
Will presently appear;
So speedily can venge! But, O poor Gloucester!
Through whom the gods have shown their power; that can
A play there is, my lord, some ten words long,
the sun of England prove a thief and take purses? a
And, had you not by wondrous fortune come,
Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts
will give over all.
good man is to have you understand me that he is
If you deny me, fie upon your law!
Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby: your niece
O, tell me how it is; for ne'er till now
embraced, as it were, from the ends of opposed
And turn them out of service. If they do this,--
That Caesar looks so sad.
the lion and the spots of thy kindred were jurors on
De neck, madame.
Leaps into the grave
My wounds ache at you.
But I wept for it. How have I offended,
tunes, let a cup of sack be my poison: when a jest
Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand:
And yet to be afeard of my deserving
The multitude, beside themselves with fear,
Made good guard for itself.
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
Exit an Attendant
Together with my practise, made familiar
This England never did, nor never shall,
But not kissed your keeper's daughter?
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse with his rapier drawn, and DROMIO of Syracuse
Exit EDGAR
Of unrelenting Clifford and the queen,
What! sigh for the toothache?
therefore, back to Rome, and prepare for your
Whispers
'Tis true, I gave a noble to the priest
Re-enter Provost
'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels.
Misguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,
Reports, the Volsces with two several powers
Then I perceive that will be verified
To Caesar will I render
The devil will shake her chain and fright us with it.
If they hold when their ladies bid 'em clap.
The sight is dismal;
fear of Got in a riot: the council, look you, shall
marvel where Troilus is. Hark! do you not hear the
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
A shrewd one to's.
In every branch truly demonstrative;
O that I had him,
Of whom your swords are temper'd, may as well
Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
falling out that year on Ash-Wednesday was four
So, fare you well.
I do present you with a man of mine,
Save you, good madam.
Peace, children, peace! the king doth love you well:
My hand hath been but idle; let it serve
And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring
Enter three or four Petitioners, PETER, the Armourer's man, being one
Sail like my pinnace to these golden shores.
Of dull Octavia. Shall they hoist me up
being a beast, she would have me; but that she,
Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;
I cannot hate thee worser than I do,
Let this be so, and doubt not but success
It is a judgment maim'd and most imperfect
And all things answerable to this portion.
To bid the father wipe his eyes withal,
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath,
What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be so
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
come to pass, say Pompey told you so.
And partly, seeing you are beautified
It doth forget to do the thing it should,
now stands, he will avoid your accusation; he made
To a most hideous object: thence it came
have been as good as my word.
Take thou thy Silvia, for thou hast deserved her.
The love that lean'd on them as slippery too,
Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
Ere stay behind this business.
Long may he live in fortunes! Shall we in?
Unless thou swear to me my child shall live.
Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear;
Walk, and be cheerful once again; reserve
Nor feels not what he owes, but by reflection;
SCENE III. Another part of the island.
When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen--
Ay, he said so, to make us fight cheerfully: but
I'll broach the tadpole on my rapier's point:
Exeunt
Gloucester;
come I to my sister; mark the moan she makes. Now
O, I could hew up rocks and fight with flint,
Egeus, I will overbear your will;
Upon thy stars, thy fortune and thy strength,
Shall I endure this monstrous villany?
fiend. 'Budge not,' says my conscience.
trust my judgment in any thing.
Of the old, feeble and day-wearied sun,
Arise to let him in: he is call'd up.
condition, and what credit I have with the duke.
Is of a constant, loving, noble nature,
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
Of these Plantagenets, Henry and Edward,
True, my good lord; I know you for no less.
Sing willow, willow, willow;
That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
Whose being I do fear: and, under him,
The divine Desdemona.
Fear not thy sons; they shall do well enough.
That should applaud again.--Pull't off, I say.--
That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
SCENE II. Rome. The house of LEPIDUS.
for the command, I'll lay't upon you. Cassio knows
Since nought so stockish, hard and full of rage,
I think, by some odd gimmors or device
wiser, the waywarder: make the doors upon a woman's
afterwards.
knowest well enough, although thou comest to me,
Exceeding pleasant; none a stranger there
The articles o' the combination drew
Women nearest; but men, men are the things
Exeunt
If she do chide, 'tis not to have you gone;
Enter ALEXAS, from OCTAVIUS CAESAR
I'll go to him, and undertake to bring him
twinkled on my bastardizing. Edgar--
And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
And smote him, thus.
The breath of garlic-eaters!
When it hoars ere it be spent.
shalt have five thousand welcomes. But, sirrah, how
A thousand pounds by the year: thus runs the bill.
think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness
You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house:
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
Exeunt
As who should say 'When I am dead and gone,
At Priam's royal table do I sit;
Exeunt
Would they else be content to die?
The mortal bugs o' the field.
That need must needs infer this principle,
With what it loathes for that which is away.
This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!
Were now the general of our gracious empress,
That malice bears down truth. And I beseech you,
The abject people gazing on thy face,
Break up the seals and read.
But I will sort a pitchy day for thee;
undone till he be hanged, nor never welcome to a
That they take place, when virtue's steely bones
With such discourse as, I not doubt, shall make it
What is this same?
Follow me.
Of many worthy fellows that were out;
Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so:
More than to see this ring. Take him away.
A salve for any sore that may betide.
Good ground, be pitiful and hurt me not!
That sunder'd friends greet in the hour of death.
And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.
Who, my cousin Cressida?
I say, I am your mother.
Lie there for pavement to the abject rear,
O, for a horse with wings! Hear'st thou, Pisanio?
O noble emperor, do not fight by sea;
My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answered:
Have I not tarried?
And I had his, sir Robert's his, like him;
Fills the wide vessel of the universe.
Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
Sore hurt and bruised: the dreadful Sagittary
Out o' the moon, I do assure thee: I was the man i'
Barns and garners never empty,
your sword.
Out of his free love, hath presented to you
If they'll do neither, we will come to them,
But, seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily,
That will be damn'd for't; would I knew the villain,
Shortly shall all my labours end, and thou
I do, sir.
I thank you for that: if my lord get a boy of you,
To fight against that bloody homicide.
Which tired majesty did make thee offer,
merely poison! Nothing I'll bear from thee,
Enter PROTEUS
Is only my obedience. What can happen
With all true faith. So says my master Antony.
Ay, ay, the cords.
see where he looks out of the window.
Strike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun;
Even at that news he dies; and then the hearts
The town is empty; on the brow o' the sea
'Tis so, they are afoot.
You and you are heart in heart
Exeunt
Certainly
says, is muddied withal: pray you, sir, use the
Here comes Bassanio, your most noble kinsman,
Re-enter First Gaoler
Be you not troubled with the time, which drives
Thy commander, Achilles. Then tell me, Patroclus,
I do not think it good.
He'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it,
The mort o' the deer; O, that is entertainment
Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
For he would needs be virtuous: that good fellow,
And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses,
Oh, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste
longer. Some mollification for your giant, sweet
But my entreaty too.
Most sweet Hercules! More authority, dear boy, name
his lover; as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse
I ask'd his blessing, and from first to last
And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter
Which he calls interest. Cursed be my tribe,
It weeps, it bleeds; and each new day a gash
Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.
figures in all things. Alexander, God knows, and
[Within]  Let him knock till it ache.
In their applauding gates.
A table set out. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and Lords like outlaws
Speak, Pucelle, and enchant him with thy words.
To requite me, by making rich yourself.
Ay, if I ever saw him before and knew him.
They'll roar him in again. Tullus Aufidius,
To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice?
ACT III
He faints! My lord, my lord!
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
I do not always follow lover, elder brother and
To your own bents dispose you: you'll be found,
A damned saint, an honourable villain!
No reason I, since of your lives you set
No, not all these, thrice-gorgeous ceremony,
is not true. The knight, Sir John, is there; and, I
Thou wilt revolt, and fly to him, I fear.
By the Lord, thou art a traitor to say so: thou
Which, though I will not practise to deceive,
He can command, lets it straight feel the spur;
At the duke's oak we meet.
speak with you, and be acquainted with you; and hath
How, how, Lychorida!
This loam, this rough-cast and this stone doth show
Exeunt OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
Have moved us and our council, that you shall
With all true duty. On toward Calais, ho!
Am I to you.
went to sea with the Ten Commandments, but scraped
Signior Iachimo will not from it.
Makes his approaches to the port of Rome:
Well, give me the moiety. Are you a party in this business?
With precepts that would make invincible
Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you,
fortunes: his grace hath made the match, and an
And so had mine.
If I be traitor or unjustly fight!
In face, in gait, in speech, he doth resemble:
Are now confined two mighty monarchies,
I am your husband, if you like of me.
When as I sat in Pabylon--
Think of this life; but, for my single self,
Re-enter Servant
I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
I know your majesty has always loved her
She did disdain my child, and stood between
priests in the old church-window, sometime like the
Till all the Andronici be made away.
[Rising]  Never, Regan:
Who, without those means thou talkest of, didst thou
He had a fever when he was in Spain,
Retiring from the siege of Orleans,
It will be short: the interim is mine;
As your good flock shall prosper.
I thank ye; and be blest for your good comfort!
Sir?
It shall be so; he shall to Brittany.
But I will prove that two on's are as good
DON
Cross-gartered!
She sat like patience on a monument,
Before a true and lawful magistrate,
thee. Farewell.
And there is in this business more than nature
Upon his bloody finger he doth wear
The common praise it bears.
warmth is there in your affection towards any of
I hope all's for the best.
Does fall in travail with her fear:
But Dover castle: London hath received,
And I from Mantua, for a gentleman,
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,
Not so, sweet  lady: but too mean a servant
This sickly land might solace as before.
in the letter. 'Cast thy humble slough,' says she;
As willingly as e'er I came from school.
How now, Meg!
Will he swagger himself out on's own eyes?
A messenger from CAESAR.
miracle: yet, in a sort, lechery eats itself.
Imploring pardon.
Sir,
Without the which I am not to be won,
Sirrah, lead these gentlemen
Alack. I love myself. Wherefore?  for any good
than any the rarest of our ladies in France.
are but boards, sailors but men: there be land-rats
In characters,
For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss
If she be mad,--as I believe no other,--
That Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,
In will peculiar and in self-admission.
Well too.
That shall civil sayings show:
jerkin, a pair of old breeches thrice turned, a pair
Good morrow, good my lord.
Clarence, excuse me to the king my brother;
By what we do to-night.
O, let me stay,
Cannot a plain man live and think no harm,
Her children not her husband's!
To hear him so inclined.
Will you go on? I pray.
Ne'er may I look on day, nor sleep on night,
double gilt of this opportunity you let time wash
therefore consider of his ransom; which must
Devesting them for bed; and then, but now--
Sweet Desdemona! O sweet mistress, speak!
How should this grow?
May be beholding to a subject, I
What is he, Biondello?
How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds
Ah, good father,
That, out of mere ambition, you have caused
I'll have: but how, when Antony is gone
As like enough it will--I'ld have it copied:
Let loose on me the justice of the state
While I use further conference with Warwick.
Even to the next willow, about your own business,
England, impatient of your just demands,
Enter Jessica
Baccare! you are marvellous forward.
Be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd:
Exit LE BEAU
But, soft! here come my executioners.
will you go, Mistress Page?
As fit the bridal. Beshrew me much, Emilia,
Will not so graceless be to be ingrate.
These weeds are memories of those worser hours:
What would my lord?
That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
I will not sing.
Enter HUME
Enter BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the whole army
escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors
No; they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
Than amply to imbar their crooked titles
I am confident,
This to my lord the king.
We come to speak with him. Ulysses, enter you.
And, to be short, what not, that's sweet and happy?
Was borne so like a soldier, that thy cheek
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE
railed at herself, that she should be so immodest
Have knit again, and fleet, threatening most sea-like.
But while I say one prayer!
And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil.
Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night,
To my inheritance of free descent.
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her;
Sir, I lack advancement.
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
May it please your grace, Antipholus, my husband,
Meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
No exorciser harm thee!
Exeunt severally
Exit HERMIA
May now perchance both quake and tremble here,
Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
That when the searching eye of heaven is hid,
May deem that you are worthily deposed.
O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable!
A good and virtuous nature may recoil
me; and take me, take a soldier; take a soldier,
Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster, to my
And sounded all the depths and shoals of honour,
This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
Of all the fair resort of gentlemen
But to say I know more harm in him than in myself,
You great fellow,
their noses are led by their eyes but blind men; and
a bloody coxcomb too: for the love of God, your
That thou attend me: thou dost here usurp
But far unfit to be a sovereign.
Greet you our victory? you look like Romans,
Made daily motions for our home return:
forth more islands.
Exit
No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope
Men's flesh preserved so whole do seldom win.
SCENE I. Athens. A hall in Timon's house.
O miserable, unhappy that I am!
For this proud mock I'll be thy slaughterman;
show himself what he is and steal out of your company.
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
Please you, retire to your chamber.
Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
How now, fair maid?
a soldier.
Sleeps
Too far i' the land: 'tis like to be loud weather;
Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
Call'd Katharina, fair and virtuous?
In yonder tower, to overpeer the city,
Exit
Enter NESTOR
Such a one, they all confess,
Let my tears stanch the earth's dry appetite;
knife, tape, glove, shoe-tie, bracelet, horn-ring,
Give me my sin again.
New horrors come upon him,
Enter APEMANTUS and Fool
A sea and land full. You have pray'd well to-day:
For him I imitate: O, if it prove,
This were kindness.
Enter Shepherd and Clown
Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms
The fires i' the lowest hell fold-in the people!
Exit
Dealing with witches and with conjurers:
The spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife,
'Tis he:--O brave Iago, honest and just,
I smell it: upon my life, it will do well.
Affection makes him false; he speaks not true:
And craves your company for speedy counsel.
O villain, villain! His very opinion in the
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
Where I have seen them shiver and look pale,
and here, Tom, take all the money that I have. O
a thing as 'tis. I can hardly forbear hurling things
Or ere your pulse twice beat.
Is she your cousin?
Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
Nay, I know not:
Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love,
Ay, forsooth; and then you may come and see the
We shall, my lord.
Exit
Came there a certain lord, neat, and trimly dress'd,
Nothing becomes him ill that he would well.
But love thee better than thou canst devise,
Assist me, Tranio, for I know thou wilt.
A great addition earned in thy death.
Four or five women once that tended me?
Myself have letters of the selfsame tenor.
The trick of's frown, his forehead, nay, the valley,
There is, sure, another flood toward, and these
Confessor to him; with that devil-monk,
You shall know now that I am in estimation; you shall
The plate, corn, revenues and moveables,
And led my country's strength successfully,
That would not be a queen, that would she not,
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
What ring gave you my lord?
If you would know your wronger, look on me.
They are, my lord.
I would, that I might thank you as you call me.
Seize upon Fife; give to the edge o' the sword
with him; I'll make him dance. Will you go, gentles?
O, I am slain!
And when my knightly stomach is sufficed,
I must perforce. Farewell.
Come, go along; my wife is coming yonder.
I will have none on't: we shall lose our time,
Conditionally, that here thou take an oath
He something seems unsettled.
Here, sister; arm'd, and bloody in intent.
When I desired him to come home to dinner,
This dangerous conception in this point.
Came on the part of York, press'd by his master;
How came the noble Timon to this change?
Honest, my lord!
full stomach.
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
Then, worthy Marcius,
Follow me; thou shalt serve me: if I like thee no
For Edward, for my brother, for his sake: Why, sirs,
Why, I cannot name't but I shall offend.
You are in the state of grace.
Madam, although I speak it in your presence,
For our access, whose hap shall be to have her
Though Page be a secure fool, an stands so firmly
Murdering impossibility, to make
That you a world of curses undergo,
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake,
Is friendly with him.
Dishonourable boy!
To the disposing of the cardinal:
soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of
More after our commandment than as guided
If thou wert sensible of courtesy,
Beshrew me, but you have a quick wit.
And we their hands.
This is my servant: hear him, noble prince.
Shoughs, water-rugs and demi-wolves, are clept
I have forsworn his bed and company.
But it sufficeth that the day will end,
See, see, thou hast shot off one of Taurus' horns.
Strange tortures for offenders never heard of,
I am a maid,
Might in their working do you that offence,
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
I kneel before thee; and unproperly
Go, some of you, knock at the abbey-gate
Follow I must; I cannot go before,
Give it a plum, a cherry, and a fig:
They did, Fluellen.
Third Serving-man	And I will see what physic the tavern affords.
And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart
In her chamber, making a sermon of continency to her;
That we present us to him.
Arm, arm with speed: and, fellows, soldiers, friends,
There is no answer made.
Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
beautified Ophelia,'--
And in the greatness of my word, you die.
Mine, Hal, mine.
The conquerors can but make a fire of him;
Which action's self was tongue to. All was royal;
Were to us all, that do't and suffer it,
reason why thou shouldst be so superfluous to demand
Exit BASTARD
In simple and low things to prince it much
Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
And this is he was his adopted heir.
Outvenoms all the worms of Nile, whose breath
And weigh thy value with an even hand:
Beats the keeper
Verily, I speak it in the freedom of my knowledge:
Such a dependency of thing on thing,
And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself
Live scandalized and foully spoken of.
So fill'd and so becoming: in pure white robes,
Worcester, get thee gone; for I do see
And we may soon our satisfaction have
What else may hap to time I will commit;
As fair and as good--a kind of hand-in-hand
To HENRY BOLINGBROKE
Come to the Capitol.
And I.
And keep in-a-door,
ANTIPHOLUS
which I would fain call master.
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
Exeunt CYMBELINE and Lords
In human action and capacity,
Tut, fear not me.
How now! what news with you?
Now is a time to storm; why art thou still?
What's his will else?
Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,
My ring away. This course I fittest choose;
Should fear to seize thee: therefore be double damn'd:
[Aside to BERTRAM]  O, for the love of laughter,
One flourishing branch of his most royal root,
Lord Angelo? they have confessed you did.
For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
And not as given. This so darks
How easy dost thou take all England up!
If hell and treason hold their promises,
And bid the cheek be ready with a blush
strength of my youth.
Exeunt
Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.
Where should we have our thanks?
I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
to sound Falstaff. If I find her honest, I lose not
SCENE VI. The forest.
At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight
O, belike his majesty hath some intent
That never knew but better, is some burden:
ladies most desirous of admittance.
Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
been truth, sir.
The grandchild to her blood. But, out, affection!
Last night you did desire it: speak not to us.
Which runs himself and catches for his master.
That had not half a week to go, like rams
melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.
But do not go with it.
With course disturb'd even thy confining shores,
Thou shouldst desire to die, being miserable.
Look, here it is.
Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight:
Enter POSTHUMUS, with a bloody handkerchief
Have any resting for her true king's queen.
Will you go?
That, undividable, incorporate,
He forfeits his own blood that spills another.
But three days longer, on the pain of death.
And not a thought but thinks on dignity.
Thou art clerkly, thou art clerkly, Sir John. Was
Which might appal the devil.
Is all of her; say that thou overheard'st us;
Enter SALISBURY, PEMBROKE, and BIGOT
Should be as holy as severe;
To mingle friendship far is mingling bloods.
compass, Sir John.
when I give the watch-'ords, do as I pid you:
otherwise.
Then when ourselves we see in ladies' eyes,
That have their alms out of the empress' chest.
That, though the truth of it stands off as gross
Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep;
Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp,
O, I have pass'd a miserable night,
A little touch of Harry in the night.
SCENE III. A room in PETRUCHIO'S house.
This orb o' the earth. His last offences to us
But I will tell you at some meeter season:
But I can give thee more:
you any eyes? Do you know what a man is? Is not
extenuated, wherein he was worthy, nor his offences
that crow so at these set kind of fools, no better
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
We wait upon your grace.
day during his life; he could not have 'scaped
Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die.
As wit and fortune will.
So should I give consent to flatter sin.
To rush into the secret house of death,
Exeunt ALCIBIADES and Lords
For thou are pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous,
Come on, come on; where is your boar-spear, man?
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
Set me where you stand.
Come down, behold no more.
You know he does.
I warrant you, madam.
How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
I wish no better
Into the danger of this adverse town;
Is left this vault to brag of.
A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother
O,'tis Marcius!
marvel how the fishes live in the sea.
We attend his lordship; pray, signify so much.
And better conquest never canst thou make
Hear us, great kings: vouchsafe awhile to stay,
His seal'd commission, left in trust with me,
Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem!
Ne'er to pluck thee from thy thorn;
gifts of nature.
Restored me to my honours, and, out of ruins,
I'll rather dwell in my necessity.
about me, I am no gibbet for you. Go. A short knife
leave. And, I beseech you, look into Master Froth
If this same were a churchyard where we stand,
Ay, by my faith, they shall not be changed yet.
What comfort is for Claudio?
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
And blow it to the source from whence it came:
'Twixt Guynes and Arde:
And from my soul too;
Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust.
of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on
That man might ne'er be wretched for his mind.
What's a drunken man like, fool?
I may avoid him: which of these is he?
By lengthening my return. From Gallia
Enter our gates; dispose of us and ours;
not suffer me: she drops booties in my mouth. I am
My name's Macbeth.
Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, what
Ay, that's my name.
A graceful gentleman; against whose person,
I say thou hast belied mine innocent child;
Fear, and not love, begets his penitence:
But on this travail look for greater birth.
Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind:
Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee.
Here is Sir Diomed. Go, gentle knight,
loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying
depends on it than we must yet deliver. Thus fail
Enter a Servingman
no truth in your report. When was it she last walked?
O Cressid! O false Cressid! false, false, false!
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
Enter, several of both houses, who join the fray; then enter Citizens, with clubs
SCENE I. Westminster. A street.
With bonds of death!
Enter Citizens
hanged: Charles' wain is over the new chimney, and
Sure ones, then.
The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
Will not a calfs-skin stop that mouth of thine?
When thou dost meet good hap; and in thy danger,
The insolence of office and the spurns
We here attend you. Are you yet determined
To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn;
You mistake, knight; 'accost' is front her, board
It shall be to him then as our good wills,
He leaves his friends to dignify them more,
Take from his heart, take from his brain,
Camest thou from where they made the stand?
would do reason.
most homely shepherd; a man, they say, that from
Nay, when? strike now, or else the iron cools.
Be moderate; allay thy ecstasy,
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
He did arrest me with an officer.
That it runs over even at his eyes.
To grace the gentry of a land remote,
And so, have at thee!
Go hence a little and I shall conduct you,
The prayers of holy saints and wronged souls,
Is this the honour they do one another?
For there, they say, he daily doth frequent,
and only the gift of the gods.
What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid
I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her name.
With him his bondman, all as mad as he--
Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help;
O, help me here!
Will't please your worship to come in, sir?
Put your dread pleasures more into command
No, indeed, sir; the Lady Olivia has no folly: she
Excellent.
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
Servant, you are sad.
You are i' the right, sir: 'tis for my mistress.
Give me the map there. Know that we have divided
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.
A doubtful warrant of immediate death;
And skilless as unpractised infancy.
The great contention of the sea and skies
gallant service.
For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words.
He'll beat Aufidius 'head below his knee
'Tis thought, Lord Talbot, when the fight began,
Wife, bid these gentlemen welcome. Come, we have a
Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas,--come,
hath given us wit to flout at Fortune, hath not
Let the supposed fairies pinch him sound
thy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.
me out contracted bachelors, such as had been asked
What, not an oath? nay, then the world goes hard
Almost as well as I do know myself:
If it be confessed, it is not redress'd: is not that
His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
But, mistress, know yourself: down on your knees,
In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
For honour's cause, forbear your suffrages:
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
which will give language to you, cat: open your
As his strong sides can volley.
Some officers take them away: good guard,
Why dost thou spit at me?
When expect you them?
You, the great toe of this assembly?
The pleasant garden of great Italy;
opposite. Now, to seem to affect the malice and
devotion than can render it him; and leaves
No, nor to-morrow, not till I please myself.
A league from Epidamnum had we sail'd,
Both him and all his brothers unto reason.
manhood is melted into courtesies, valour into
Have I caught thee, my heavenly jewel? Why, now let
Here we: and if to-morrow
Nay, my good lord, let me o'errule you now:
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
Farewell, my sovereign.
Heaven let me bear it! you granting of my suit,
Has he dined, canst thou tell? for I would not
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
Rideth a puissant navy; to the shore
Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
Ay, but I hope your highness shall have his.
From thy report as thou from honour, and
That show of such an exercise may colour
Chrish save me, la! in an hour: O, tish ill done,
He plough'd her, and she cropp'd.
Hides not his visage from our cottage but
Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have
This little one shall make it holiday.
Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I'll answer him
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
A poor unfortunate beggar.
To spread his colours, boy, in thy behalf,
He receives comfort like cold porridge.
Money and order for their furniture.
And tell me how you would bestow yourself.
Sir, this is the house: please it you that I call?
towards our wives are a yoke of his discarded men;
Who was last with them?
on't! there 'tis: now, sit, this staff is my
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
Good sir, be patient.
Owe their estates unto him.
Safe mayst thou wander, safe return again!
In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
Am I a lord? and have I such a lady?
Take comfort: he no more shall see my face;
Come to the Centaur; fetch our stuff from thence:
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE, with a basket
I am the drudge and toil in your delight,
Your eyes, which hitherto have borne in them
The rather, for I earnestly beseech,
How now, Prince Troilus! wherefore not afield?
Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you?
I can, my liege.
And any man may sing her, if he can take her cliff;
morning your departure hence, it requires haste of
Why, what's the matter?
Is that an answer?
Madam, I will, if suddenly I may.
Your vows to her and me, put in two scales,
excellent at faults.
Himself with princes; one that, by suggestion,
Prick'd on by public wrongs sustain'd in France,
Now falls on Priam.
Which he achieved by the minute, lost his favour.
and he will smile upon her, which will now be so
Their proper selves.
And in a dark and dankish vault at home
My youth can better spare my blood than you;
O earth, which this blood drink'st revenge his death!
When the devout religion of mine eye
A noble wish.
I know you wise, but yet no farther wise
I am an ass, I am a woman's man and besides myself.
Ha! I have said. Be gone. What!
all the country is laid for me; but now am I so
Well.
Makes the night morning, and the noon-tide night.
And then, forsooth, the faint defects of age
Cried 'O!' and mounted; found no opposition
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
purpose, courage and valour, this night show it: if
half, but his right cheek is worn bare.
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Moon take thy flight:
together at the latter day and cry all 'We died at
Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine,--
Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
About the mount Misenum.
your ladyships, you may see the end; for the best is
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones and floods;
The king by me requests your presence straight.
As one unworthy all the former favours
By that same god, what god soe'er it be,
Enter a Messenger
I fear he will.
If beauty have a soul, this is not she;
Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
battery. He sits in his state, as a thing made for
whoreson, obscene, grease tallow-catch,--
After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.
Brought hither in a most unlucky hour,
Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water:
Ravish a maid, or plot the way to do it,
What, courage, man! What though care killed a cat,
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,
That it did, sir, i' the very throat on
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
Now question me no more; we are espied;
What was the speech among the Londoners
DON
And those occasions, uncle, were of force:
Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
Good madam, hear me.
Ay, his breast:
thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature:
To each incensed will. I would your highness
The tears have got small victory by that;
Come, let us to the banquet.
Fair Portia's counterfeit! What demi-god
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, Lords and Attendants
Exeunt
What ceremony else?
Where Balthazar and I did dine together.
So did I yours. Good your grace, pardon me;
Is very snow-broth; one who never feels
strength: if you saw yourself with your eyes or
Then, Richard Earl of Cambridge, there is yours;
As what I think might be, but what I know
Of our proceedings kept the earl from hence:
Though peril to my modesty, not death on't,
There's some great matter she'ld employ me in.
Exeunt carriers
And see how he will take it at your hands.
Every time
The Turk, that two and fifty kingdoms hath,
Thou liest; I can.
I am.
SCENE III. Dunsinane. A room in the castle.
Then let him know, and tell him Timon speaks it,
Nay, stay a little:
I have look'd on thousands, who have sped the better
A mere anatomy, a mountebank,
Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
I knew she would.
That should by private order else have died,
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.
'If once he come to be a cardinal,
Be it so! Amen!
How terrible in constant resolution,
A fortnight hold we this solemnity,
ale-houses, and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
And humble service till the point of death.
at home, he had lived.
To do him wrong or any way impeach
Pucelle, that witch, that damned sorceress,
The record of what injuries you did us,
But what, is Catesby gone?
This is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity,
From those you sent to the oracle are come
Do you love me?
Not, indeed:
Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
dearer love.
And know their spring, their head, their
on a brick wall have I climbed into this garden, to
Go on: right royal.
Falls and dies
Not so, neither:
His crest that prouder than blue Iris bends.
Of the dank morning? What, is Brutus sick,
Let him shun castles;
I cannot blame him: at my nativity
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
ACT II
Like men born to renown by life or death.
Give me your hand and say you will be mine.
Enter a Messenger
I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' the
Enter Blackamoors with music; MOTH; FERDINAND,  BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in Russian habits, and masked
The people love me, and the sea is mine;
That does affect it. Once more, fare you well.
That at his will he may do danger with.
SCENE III. The same. The Forum.
Or not my father's. For I cannot be
renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek
If I may counsel you, some day or two
Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot
She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking-glass;
Slink all away, leave their false vows with him,
That I shall lose distinction in my joys;
But since you teach me how to flatter you,
Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.
And is not this an honourable spoil?
Ay, marry, are they, sir.
And cast you, with the waters that you lose,
Who comes here?
What comfort, man? how is't with aged Gaunt?
No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;
Therefore, to speak, and to avoid the first,
were troth-plight to her.
How angel-like he sings!
To line and new repair our towns of war
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
Do not desire to see this letter.
Ye appear in every thing may bring my ruin!
Enter TIMON, from the cave
And were I strong, I would not shun their fury:
Do so, my friends. See them well entertain'd.
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
And never look upon thy face again.
Would I might never stir from off this place,
And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
Upon which better part our prayers come in,
Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependants
I know not what 'twas but distraction.
To appoint myself in this vexation, sully
be shamed. What, wife, I say! Come, come forth!
Not a jot, not a jot.
Than ever you or yours were by me wrong'd!
This is mere madness:
And some are yet ungotten and unborn
Thou art sure to lose; and, of that natural luck,
[Within]  Francis!
Let's have some merry ones.
Have in their own land beaten, bobb'd, and thump'd,
To pray at fortune. Haply, for I am black
Rouse him: make after him, poison his delight,
the soldier than in the scholar.
Against the flint and hardness of my fault:
Marry, well bethought:
My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
Exeunt Pandar and Pirates
Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
Where none will sweat but for promotion,
What angel shall
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
Did us but loving wrong.
this rascal, I could brain him with his lady's fan.
I would not follow him then.
fought a most prave pattle here in France.
It then remains
A valiant son-in-law thou shalt enjoy;
In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you,
A Roman.
I pray you do.
Of bragging horror: so shall inferior eyes,
husband, come home presently.
What thou thinkest meet and is most mannerly.
Why, then 'tis time to arm and give direction.
with a wench.
Have the disease, and feel't not. How now, boy!
Nay, I'll be patient.
And profound Solomon to tune a jig,
And it is very much lamented, Brutus,
I heard nothing.
And what's the news, good cousin Lodovico?
O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted; I will give
Happily met, my lady and my wife!
Desire him not to flatter with his lord,
A charge sounded
you strange news that you yet dreamt not of.
Go in and cheer the king: he rages; none
That fled the snares of watchful tyranny;
Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame.
lily-livered, action-taking knave, a whoreson,
Under pardon, sir, what are the contents? or rather,
I know him to be valiant.
you: nay, I pray you, let me go.
York cannot speak, unless he wear a crown.
Good morrow, and well met. How have ye done
Exit SUFFOLK
to-morrow four o'clock.
Further I will not flatter you, my lord,
Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men
The sea-tost Pericles appears to speak.
lie on my head.
Thrust these reproachful speeches down his throat
Exeunt POMPEY and ABHORSON
But here's a vengeful sword, rusted with ease,
Therefore thy later vows against thy first
Why, this it is: my heart accords thereto,
Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it:
That sometimes savours nobly. But hear me this:
Exeunt
devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh
With burial amongst their ancestors:
SCENE V. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Speak to Mistress Page.
On me, my bargains and my well-won thrift,
Doing is activity; and he will still be doing.
The Prince of Wales doth join with all the world
And so was I: I'll bear you company.
And with the same full state paced back again
And hold her free, I do beseech your honour.
I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver
An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous
Exit
I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion
Know his gross patchery, love him, feed him,
of the sight of Orlando: I'll go find a shadow and
and they will learn you by rote where services were
Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.
Have steep'd their galls in honey and do serve you
That excellent grand tyrant of the earth,
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
altar; it hath done meritorious service.
In name of lendings for your highness' soldiers,
lie, do, and try whether I am not now a gentleman born.
Aside
I understand not what you mean by this.
But his evasion, wing'd thus swift with scorn,
No talk of Timon, nothing of him expect.
In Cressid's love: thou answer'st 'she is fair;'
Yet swear not, lest ye be forsworn again.
Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is;
Any silk, any thread,
Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams:
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Were it good, think you?
All-hallond eve.
You have it from his own deliverance.
The full cause of our coming.
'Tis conceived to scope.
his valour: what is his honesty?
The image of it gives me content already; and I
SCENE IV. A hall in Black-Friars.
I thank you for your music, gentlemen.
Dost thou hear, Hal? never call a true piece of
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot
Thieves are not judged but they are by to hear,
To stale 't a little more.
Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world,
And ill it doth beseem your holiness
And wear it as a favour; and with that
[To BIANCA]  What, look you pale? O, bear him out
Pardon me, dear Rosalind.
I have fled myself; and have instructed cowards
Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue,
To waste these times. Good hour of night, Sir Thomas!
the burly-boned clown in chines of beef ere thou
And health on both!
with working.
I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.
The Senators descend, and open the gates
Exit with CRESSIDA
That he will neither know how to maintain it,
As from a bear a man would run for life,
Did not thy hue bewray whose brat thou art,
Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife.
about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his
They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
Ay, a tailor, sir: a stone-cutter or painter could
piercing statutes daily, to chain up and restrain
Worthy Timon,--
Is yet fresh in their grief.
What are they that fly there?
me:
I have't in my nose too.
English John Talbot, captains, calls you forth,
Some harlot's spirit! my throat of war be turn'd,
Forbid the sea for to obey the moon
You must sing a-down a-down,
bed; which bed, because it shall not speak of your
'Tis the right ring, by heaven: I told ye all,
Doing more murders in this loathsome world,
SCENE I. A house in Rome.
It pleased your majesty to turn your looks
Affected greatness got by you, not you:
thou layest the plot how.
What?
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
Who thou wilt: and if thou please,
Which ne'er I did remember: to my knowledge,
Peace!
By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend
out water in foul way?
Entirely honour: I would not be delay'd.
And left thee but a very prey to time;
A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen
What appetite you have.
They take it already upon their salvation, that
cannot enjoy her.
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
You must no more call it York-place, that's past;
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
Devil or devil's dam, I'll conjure thee:
Forgive me, Valentine: if hearty sorrow
Ajax commands the guard to tend on you.
hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee
O were the sum of these that I should pay
Nothing in love: now does he feel his title
Nay, press not so upon me; stand far off.
sighing every minute and groaning every hour would
Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry:
And couple Clowder with the deep--mouth'd brach.
I should have lost the worth of it in gold.
Hath pluck'd him after.
Are brought your eyes; what need speak I?
good soldiers and tall fellows; and when Mistress
He opens the silver casket
The motion's good indeed and be it so,
To-morrow, or at further space, to appear
To thrust his icy fingers in my maw,
I will withdraw: but this intrusion shall
Was grown into a hoop? hast thou forgot her?
one Nym, sir, that beguiled him of a chain, had the
opinion; which, bettered with his own learning, the
To every varied object in his glance:
thrust in the mouth with a spear, and 'tis not whole
By flattery hath he won the commons' hearts,
ANTIPHOLUS
And where I did begin, there shall I end;
[Aside to ARIEL]  Bravely, my diligence. Thou shalt be free.
Enter BANQUO
For I will hence to Warwick's other daughter;
Work, work your thoughts, and therein see a siege;
Achilles will not to the field to-morrow.
She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
My princely father then had wars in France
O, heaven forgive us!
To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
Marry, hang you!
Where be our men?
Nay, faith, let me not play a woman; I have a beard coming.
If Lucius live, he will requite your wrongs;
There's something tells me, but it is not love,
Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies,
Good things will strive to dwell with't.
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
Gracious my lord,
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
From seventeen years till now almost fourscore
Where their appointment we may best discover,
Send to his brother; fetch that gallant hither;
We learn no other but the confident tyrant
As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil
Of him that did not ask, but mock, bestow
Talk us to silence.
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
She is a woman, therefore to be won.
Warr'st thou 'gainst Athens?
Unless Bellario, a learned doctor,
He unlocks the golden casket
Go, Faulconbridge: now hast thou thy desire;
This ague fit of fear is over-blown;
No, no; you shall have it for bearing the letter.
SCENE IV:
A very, very--pajock.
Many an English ditty lovely well
In the brave squares of war: yet now--No matter.
liars, and adulterers, by an enforced obedience of
Motion and breath left out.
And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
A parley sounded
To have her gentleman abused, assaulted,
What is the cause of thunder?
Your loving motion toward the common body,
Exit
Take her, or leave her?
So foolish sorrow bids your stones farewell.
A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings
For that will physic the great Myrmidon
CYMBELINE and IMOGEN come forward
Still and contemplative in living art.
Now my charms are all o'erthrown,
secrets! I'll after, to rejoice in the boy's correction.
Nay, put out all your hands. Not one word more:
There's nothing I have done yet, o' my conscience,
The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of a
Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
With some men else, who think themselves as safe
Go with me, like good angels, to my end;
How, sir?
My husband!
it cannot be sounded: my affection hath an unknown
I am sorry for thee, friend; 'tis the duke's pleasure,
He prettily and aptly taunts himself:
Hath well composed thee. Thy father's moral parts
Hark! a drum.
Impatient of my absence,
wrong to put you so oft upon 't: are there not men
Of burning youth.
Per Styga, per manes vehor.
Rather than have that savage duke thine heir
And quench his fiery indignation
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
The sea, with such a storm as his bare head
You do yourselves but wrong to stir me up;
Those prisoners you shall keep.
O Kate, content thee; prithee, be not angry.
As thou dost, Antony; he hears no music;
Hark, canst thou hear me? I will play the swan.
of most allowed sufficiency, yet opinion, a
worthier than a village, so is the forehead of a
Until his ink were temper'd with Love's sighs;
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
Should fall as Jacob's hire, the ewes, being rank,
The art of our necessities is strange,
Such noble scenes as draw the eye to flow,
Gripe not at earthly joys as erst they did;
'pointed day.
Truly, for mine own part, I would little or nothing
Countercheque Quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie with
Our dance of custom round about the oak
of; which imports to the kingdom so much
The honour and regard of such a father.
The beauty of this kingdom, I'll assure you.
Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules;
With purpose to relieve and follow them,
Fear not, my lord: that Power that made you king
For, though before his face I speak the words
Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.
things catch.
and most illustrious six-or-seven-times-honoured
Nay, come away.
But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
Patience, I say; your mind perhaps may change.
Forces pass
That feelingly persuade me what I am.'
What, dost thou turn away and hide thy face?
A lioness hath whelped in the streets;
I have said.
I'll follow this good man, and go with you;
[Aside to DOCTOR CAIUS]  Pray you, use your patience:
flatterer: he that beguiled you in a plain
He does well in 't.
Doting like me and like me banished,
And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians:
Farewell, gentle cousin.
The absolute soldiership you have by land;
Ay, but yet
'Two boys, an old man twice a boy, a lane,
A fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs.
Adore our errors; laugh at's, while we strut
To bring bad news: give to a gracious message.
Hautboys sound. The Company sit down at table
better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are
And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
O, je vous supplie, pour l'amour de Dieu, me
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
Flattering myself, as if it were the Moor
For I had rather wink than look on them.
SCENE III. The field of battle.
And that which rather thou dost fear to do
[To AGAMEMNON]  My lord, you feed too much on this dislike.
Exeunt all except HENRY, KATHARINE, and ALICE
Which but attends thy naming.
Pray ye, sir?
Whiles you are willing it shall come to note,
Exit LUCIUS
Take hands, a bargain!
For he that interrupts him shall not live.
in one poor man, Pompion the Great, sir.
Now he importunes him
A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men,
Which we have done, whose answer would be death
would we had so ended! but you, sir, altered that;
Edward thy son, which now is Prince of Wales,
A savour that may strike the dullest nostril
At Southam I did leave him with his forces,
Roundly replied.
inclination of the people, especially of the younger sort?
Go pack with him, and give the mother gold,
O, that my tongue were in the thunder's mouth!
O, I die, Horatio;
But pearls are fair; and the old saying is,
Exeunt
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Most noble! in the presence of thy corse?
Come, sir.
With those five talents.
The contrary doth make thee wonder'd at:
The flesh?
Nothing may give us aid.
Our equalness to this. Hear me, good friends--
You cannot tent yourself: be gone, beseech you.
True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of
'Zounds, I bleed still; I am hurt to the death.
He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stol'n,
As your fair self, doth tune us otherwise:
The loyalty well held to fools does make
Ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks,
As great as that thou fear'st.
she's a witch; forbade her my house and hath
To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes
Nay, 'tis too true; therefore he shall be king.
Is sum of something, which, to term in gross,
We are true subjects to the king, King Edward.
can construe the action of her familiar style; and
My Lord of Somerset, at my request,
and rebels' arms triumph in massacres!
Do, if it will not stand.
At my depart, these were his very words:
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
Even so suspicious is this tragedy.
That I myself was to myself not mine,
Laugh at his challenge.
Once more, Cesario,
He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold:
The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal;
the fool should be as oft with your master as with
They give their greeting to the citadel;
I'll help you, Sir Toby, because well be dressed together.
She pray'd me to excuse her keeping close,
Knocking within
Traitors, avaunt! Where is the emperor's guard?
from all: the rest
York set him on; York should have sent him aid.
Most throughly to be winnow'd, where my chaff
Continued so, until we thought he died.
To heaven.
A twist of rotten silk, never admitting
Is he dispatch'd?
Knock,
O, why should nature build so foul a den,
Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee,
I'll save you
Where, good Mistress Mary?
should I say to him? I was then frugal of my
To her, Kate!
We shall appear before him. On there; pass along!
That will allow me very worth his service.
neither than with safety of a pure blush thou mayst
With bloody veins, expecting overthrow,
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
From this most bravest vessel of the world
Now, where's your master'?
kings and princes; for by such was it acted.
Advanced above pale envy's threatening reach.
For mine own part,
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
Reads
keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.
A pound of man's flesh taken from a man
Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry?
And so I say, I'll cut the causes off,
But did my brother set thee on to this?
There is example for't; the lady of the Strachy
And beauty that the tyrant oft reclaims
grows old: God help the while! a bad world, I say.
Therefore I shall beseech you, if you please
Chance as fair and choose as true!
You have told them home;
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
appear foul! takes virtuous copies to be wicked,
Tendering our sister's honour and our own.
Be valued against your wife's commandment.
I free you from't. You are not to be taught
Must have some private conference; but be near at hand,
Enter Host and SIMPLE
Three thousand ducats for three months and Antonio bound.
That can sing both high and low:
He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest mother!
And no worldly suit would he be moved,
town, by moonlight; there will we rehearse, for if
Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune
One that hath ever been God's enemy:
Though banish'd, yet a trueborn Englishman.
Either new, or by remissness new-conceived,
Grow great by your example and put on
Without leave-taking? I pray you,
In honour of my noble Lord of York:
Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me;
I have a kind soul that would give you thanks
Where art thou now?
So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
Go anticly, show outward hideousness,
I cannot do it better than in gyves,
So when he opens his purse to give us our reward,
eyes looked upon, was the best deserving a fair lady.
Burn, house! sink, Athens! henceforth hated be
plague upon Antenor! I would they had broke 's neck!
That we must leave thee to thy sinking, for
My clouted brogues from off my feet, whose rudeness
of holy bread.
He was from thence discharged. Sir, call to mind
O sacred receptacle of my joys,
Mad world! mad kings! mad composition!
For exile hath more terror in his look,
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
But now will canker-sorrow eat my bud
Exeunt
Will undertake to woo curst Katharina,
O you hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome,
Like a poor bark, of sails and tackling reft,
You have now a broken banquet; but we'll mend it.
A riding-suit, no costlier than would fit
To die, even when they to perfection grow!
how say you?
And art thou come to this?
What is the matter, think you?
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
I must to England; you know that?
He should have worn the horns on his head.
that: heaven knows what she has known.
Bewitch your hearts; be wise and circumspect.
This is the door.
by Sir Toby.
daughter, she is, by this, Doctor Caius' wife.
An if my word be sterling yet in England,
The marigold, that goes to bed wi' the sun
With folded arms. This poor right hand of mine
My boy a bastard! By my soul, I think
There may as well be amity and life
You see, is kill'd in him: and yet it is danger
Ay, four, in buckram suits.
When I was sick, you gave me bitter pills,
And on your finger in the night I'll put
This was so and no slumber. Dreams are toys:
This wretch hath part confess'd his villany:
Whate'er you think, good words, I think, were best.
And so I wish'd thy body might my heart:
The emperor calls Canidius.
And fly would Talbot never, though he might.
What think you of the Scottish lord, his neighbour?
Why this same strict and most observant watch
you: but believe me not; and yet I lie not; I
are: make the trial of it in any constant question.
will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
Exit RODERIGO
Bless me from marrying a usurer!
Sir, sir, be patient.
Open your gates and gives the victors way.
How now, my pretty knave! how dost thou?
Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
speak. Sweet, say on.
It is as sure as you are Roderigo,
And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour,
Here comes a gentleman that haply knows more.
And be true king indeed, thou but the shadow.
Is this the promised end
My lords, with all the humbleness I may,
Cause they take vengeance of such kind of men.
With meekness and humility; but your heart
Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus?
I came before you here a man prepared
these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty
Nay, it is possible enough to judgment:
March. Enter MONTGOMERY, with drum and soldiers
master Shylock and you, sir: you have the grace of
PROLOGUE
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II, QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, and BAGOT
O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
SCENE I. Athens. The palace of THESEUS.
What horse? a roan, a crop-ear, is it not?
Dost thou love hawking? thou hast hawks will soar
In the seat royal of this famous isle?
right-hand file? do you?
This is the woman, but not this the man.
Death, desolation, ruin and decay:
Smells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze,
There is reasons and causes for it.
Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair.
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
whole realms on fire: Of such a nature is his
To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm.
He said he would not ransom Mortimer;
Let us be led within thy bosom, Richard,
[Aside]	'Tis Butts,
Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground;
And shooting well is then accounted ill.
Follow my mother.
Tell you the duke, shall prosper: bid him strive
I am the son of Henry the Fifth,
Yonder comes news. A wager they have met.
And on my head did set the diadem.
Rather than make unprofited return.
Here's no man.
I swound to see thee.
'Tis sweet at first to acquire,--after this process,
Alas, master, what shall I do? I am not able to stand.
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
Which so roused up with boisterous untuned drums,
Exeunt JULIET and Nurse
How now, fellow! would'st anything with me?
But I will watch you from such watching now.
Exeunt HENRY PERCY and Lords
His language in his tears.
Fie, fie, fie, fie!
habit of some sir of note, and so forth. I have
dislikes, to flatter them for their love.
Sir Valour dies; cries 'O, enough, Patroclus;
I'll hear no more: die, prophet in thy speech:
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
And let him know so.
An elder than herself: so wears she to him,
I'll think them every one an Antony,
For, since the cardinal fell, that title's lost:
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS, disguised as before; PISTOL,  as Hobgoblin; MISTRESS QUICKLY, ANNE PAGE, and others, as Fairies, with tapers
Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, ORLANDO, CHARLES, and Attendants
It is certain, corporal, that he is married to Nell
But to be commanded
Yet in such rule that the Venetian law
My legs can keep no measure in delight,
I list not prophecy; but let Time's news
Enter to them, MENENIUS
Roguery!
From the dead temples of this bloody wretch
In time I may believe, yet I mistrust.
The blessed gods
Ah, my good Lord of Winchester, I thank you;
Ay, so I say.
Come hither, boy; come, come, and learn of us
face me out of my wits.
A man of thy profession and degree;
her husband, another elevated that the oracle was
Doth Fortune play the huswife with me now?
Be blamed for't how you might.
My honours to you, upon his good returns.
A fool go with thy soul, whither it goes!
Phebe, with all my heart.
That he enchants societies into him;
How rarely does it meet with this time's guise,
And enter in our ears like great triumphers
SCENE I. Pentapolis. An open place by the sea-side.
Why, one that swears and lies.
Hoisted sail and made away for Brittany.
Still cupboarding the viand, never bearing
leg, it was formed under the star of a galliard.
Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,
Is found a truth now: for it grows again
SCENE II. A court of Justice.
Blow, and split thyself.
I hear there is an overture of peace.
Accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
By my troth, I speak my thought.
As easy as a down-bed would afford it.
pretty chopt hands had milked; and I remember the
Exit
Well, it was proclaimed 'damsel.'
Is free of speech, sings, plays and dances well;
for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher and
our plot is a good plot as ever was laid; our
And quickly will return an injury:
Where art thou, death?
And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.
Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts
Judas I am, ycliped Maccabaeus.
it will be seen to-morrow: my long sickness
And not by old gradation, where each second
But if you would consider the true cause
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
No.
I smell sweet savours and I feel soft things:
And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this:
A plague on thee! thou art too bad to curse.
Shall I call you father?
As, by our hands and this our present act,
Thou must not stay behind.
Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
And therefore am I bold and resolute.
When after that the holy rites are ended,
Have seal'd thy full desire.
Re-enter Provost
That would to cinders burn up modesty,
Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine
the rod, and put'st down thine own breeches,
Friar, thou knowest not the duke so well as I do:
Dull not device by coldness and delay.
Here is a hand to hold a sceptre up
Then, grandam, you conclude that he is dead.
Shall ill become the flower of England's face,
Examine every married lineament,
As he in his particular act and place
Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Whereof I shall not have intelligence.
I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them.
Thou art the king of honour:
Or like a gallant horse fall'n in first rank,
I am no viper, yet I feed
Such Brooks are welcome to me, that o'erflow such
My royal lord,
Lucius!
Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
The doors are broke.
'Fair' in 'all hail' is foul, as I conceive.
good diet, as I told you,--
Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible,--
At Tarsus, and by Cleon train'd
The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.
Which yet seem shut, we, have but pinn'd with rushes;
I would have peace and quietness, but the fool will
At one fell swoop?
We beg your hearing patiently.
To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper?
Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and earth!
And for your rapier most especially,
sonnets already: the clown bore it, the fool sent
Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant
that, 'twas a pricket that the princess killed.
But who comes here? I am invisible;
The gods themselves do weep!
Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.
For which your honour and your faith is pawn'd;
The beauty that is borne here in the face
will teach you how to humour your cousin, that she
Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:
Good ladies, let's go. Yes, yes, yes; the senate
Paris and I kiss evermore for him.
Where is this Hector?
Go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
let me bate,-but not like me--yet long'st,
From first to last resolve you.
For these known evils, but to give me leave,
I am sure, is sent for.
Then you should hate Rome, as he does. Can you,
And if my death might make this island happy,
and to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will
Most certain.
That he'll enjoin me to.
At careful nursing. Go thy ways, good mariner:
Will tie you to the numbers and the time
Which of us fears.
Whom angry heavens do make their minister
impediment most profitably removed, without the
Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his
that goes of his having.
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
Me a groat!
And, would you represent our queen aright,
Where's Caius Marcius?
'Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave
Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, HORTENSIO, and Servants
Speak to the business, master-secretary:
Hath been enacted through your enmity;
you will desire; and seven hundred pounds of moneys,
too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd, as it
Bootless home and weather-beaten back.
With your theme, I could
This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby
Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me!
better man than thee.
any.
His lands to me, and took it on his death
And even these three days have I watch'd,
They saw we had a purpose of defence.
Enter CYMBELINE, QUEEN, CLOTEN, LUCIUS, Lords, and Attendants
Destruction on my head, if my bad blame
Alas, I sent you money to redeem you,
But still, where danger was, still there I met him;
Only thus much I give your grace to know:
Leaving free things and happy shows behind:
tell him my mind.
And turn his sleep to wake.
you could go backward.
I then, all smarting with my wounds being cold,
Strange that power should be. Canidius,
The Dauphin rages at our very heels.
How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,
Who find in my exile the want of breeding,
Learn how 'tis held; and what they are that must
I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land,
purpose as then each bore, upon importance of so
We are but plain fellows, sir.
I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace:
Shylock, do you hear?
For, as I hear, he was much bound for you.
found; or, if it were, it would neither serve for
'Twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept,
in you is a virtue of a good wing, and I like the wear well.
To-day in our young lords; but they may jest
Of what a monarchy you are the head:
The enemy of all your graces lives:
Behold our patroness, the life of Rome!
What judgment shall I dread, doing no wrong?
It would be much vexation to your age.
Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms,
Come, let's see the event.
Hath mock'd me. I am faint.
The people will accept whom he admits.
What boded this, but well forewarning wind
Stray'd his affection in unlawful love?
Earlier too, sir, if now I be one.
What is the matter, uncle? speak;
Lucina lent not me her aid,
Welcome, sweet prince, to London, to your chamber.
Upon thy eye-balls murderous tyranny
you for yourselves?
At this hour reigning there.
Carthage?
But I have cause to pry into this pedant:
Mark me.
Re-enter Servant
And keep it from the earth.
Dies
The deeds of justest men.
Drum and trumpet, chambers discharged
To put a golden sceptre in thy hand
I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
O, are you come, Iago? you have done well,
And now I do bethink me, it was she
My native English, now I must forego:
Into my cousin's hand, Doctor Bellario;
Enter, at one door KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD,  GLOUCESTER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and other Lords;  at another, the FRENCH KING, QUEEN ISABEL, the  PRINCESS KATHARINE, ALICE and other Ladies; the DUKE of BURGUNDY, and his train
Nay, sometime hangs both thief and true man: what
Which death or absence soon shall remedy.
Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself:
A face without a heart?
And his pond fish'd by his next neighbour, by
kind master.
You three, Biron, Dumain, and Longaville,
If you had known the virtue of the ring,
'Twas from the canon.
Which would be great impeachment to his age,
beshrew them!
I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and
With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
He puts on sackcloth, and to sea. He bears
My uses cry to me, I must serve my turn
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
This to my cousin Scroop, and all the rest
There dancing up to the chins, that the foul lake
Awaked an evil nature; and my trust,
O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
And more, more strong, then lesser is my fear,
certain Venetians; and thither comes the bauble,
Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier,
Then my account I well may, give,
I will encounter with Andronicus,
Aaron will have his soul black like his face.
As benefits forgot:
How now! a madman! Why, thou peevish sheep,
On a day--alack the day!--
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
ANTIPHOLUS
Alarum. The Romans are beat back to their trenches. Re-enter MARCIUS cursing
This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him.
Take her away.
Why, this is like the mending of highways
And twelve tight galleys: these I will assure her,
It is not well done, mark you now take the tales out
occasion to use me for your own turn, you shall find
To do that office of thine own good will
CAESAR goes up to the Senate-House, the rest following
The lives of those which we have lost in fight
And I do with an eye of love requite her.
Be quite contrary: and thatch your poor thin roofs
As record of fair act; nay, many times,
Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heaven!
Have we not been; and therefore met your loves
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
knees he would be even with me: I have good
An turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
In readiness for Hymenaeus stand,
Very reverend sport, truly; and done in the testimony
So thou, my surfeit and my heresy,
BISHOP
Enter GLOUCESTER
He speaks not like a man of God's making.
as bad a kind, Achilles: and now is the cur Ajax
Not all the water in the rough rude sea
This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who
This fellow pecks up wit as pigeons pease,
The day frowns more and more: thou'rt like to have
So please you, he is here at the door and importunes
Even in his own garments, and gave himself,
Are joyfully return'd.
not brown neither,--
ACT IV
My last good deed was to entreat his stay:
So hot a speed with such advice disposed,
For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down;
would not, as they term it, praise her: but I would
Not very well, but I have met him oft;
I deny your major: if you will deny the sheriff,
And, had I first been put to speak my mind,
wings to follow it! Come, and be true.
A lemon.
SCENE III. Wales. Before Flint castle.
'Tis rigor and not law. Your honours all,
Can have no note, unless the sun were post--
Here in this island we arrived; and here
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
With all my wits, my pains and strong endeavours,
That Lepidus of the triumvirate
And go indeed, having so good a mean.
Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life,
That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
To take upon you what is yours: you may
you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Rather than render back, out with your knives,
Enter MISTRESS FORD
This growing image of thy fiend-like face?
So horrid as in woman.
You owe this strange intelligence? or why
Shall bring Emilia forth.
Are all these things perceived in me?
There is indeed; which they would have your grace
Look you speak justly.
when we are old?
am a Jew, if I serve the Jew any longer.
Where's Publius?
Confounds us. Hark! I laid their daggers ready;
That is deceiveable. But here the lady comes.
Your majesty shall mock at me; I cannot speak your England.
I have heard it, Pompey;
Alas, good lady!
Exeunt YORK, EDWARD, EDMUND, GEORGE, RICHARD,  WARWICK, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, their Soldiers, and Attendants
I know it is the moon.
very night.
They will'd me say so, madam.
One of these is true:
Enter other Servants
Cannot be cured by words; therefore be still.
If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
The son and heir of old Tiberio.
instruct her in it and compel her to some second
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
Who heard me to deny it or forswear it?
'Tis the last service that I shall command you.
Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound
So vanish'd: which foreshow'd our princely eagle,
He is a kinsman to the Montague;
And yours, the noble sinews of our power,
And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep--
And by the way possess thee what she is.
Thou call'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause;
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
to endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good
A root of ancient envy. If Jupiter
'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
much more, much worse.
He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her
O sweet Paulina,
Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly
countermines: by Cheshu, I think a' will plough up
Re-enter FLUELLEN, GOWER following
strange guest he has here.
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
Have their ingratitude in them hereditary:
I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me.
peremptorily I speak it, there is virtue in that
You would abate the strength of your displeasure.
More harder than the stones whereof 'tis raised;
Enter PROTEUS
The thing we sue for.
And had I twenty times so many foes,
In a long motley coat guarded with yellow,
refused, and upon the grief of this suddenly died.
We must not. A noble prisoner!
Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook.
with your eyes. Take notice that I am in Cambria,
I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much
Say, I command her to come to me.
Who is 't can read a woman? Is there more?
And finds them perfect Richard. Sirrah, speak,
Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
Send quickly to Sir John, to know his mind.
I look'd her in the face, and saw her led
festival purses; and had not the old man come in
Exit procession, and then a great flourish of trumpets
Some offer me commodities to buy:
cowardly rascal, nature disclaims in thee: a
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Enter EDGAR disguised as a mad man
This, here before you.
And if thine eyes can water for his death,
A delicate odour.
Thine own true knight,
We came hither to fight with you.
A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise.
In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns;
Meet me i' the morning: thither he
A foe to the public weal: obey, I charge thee,
And in her heart she scorns our poverty:
I sometime lay here in Corioli
that is honest; to converse with him that is wise,
SCENE I. Before Orleans.
Your rage mistakes us.
And then he runs straight and even.
Say you?
Out of this wood do not desire to go:
Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed!
extremity of both ends: when thou wast in thy gilt
O, let the vile world end,
Say who art thou that lately didst descend
What cannot be amended.
the pestilence; to sigh, like a school-boy that had
Would in so just a business shut his bosom
Whether they live or die.
Thou camest here to complain.
Have lipp'd, and trembled kissing.
So, thanks to all at once and to each one,
You say you are a better soldier:
hand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink and paper:
compound with the major part of your syllables: and
As she lived peerless,
Yourself, your queen, your son.
upon the church-bench till two, and then all to bed.
But for my daughter Katharina, this I know,
Lay on my bed my wedding sheets: remember;
I do disdain thy courtesy, proud Trojan:
This is strange: methinks
such dispositions as he bears, this last
Let's see't. I will pursue her
At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.
Some reasons of this double coronation
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
Enter GRANDPRE
But to have divinity preached there! did you ever
I understand thy looks: that pretty Welsh
above deck.
Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
With hearts more proof than shields. Advance,
The worst that may befall me in this case,
Peep'd harms that menaced him: he privily
as Horace says in his--What, my soul, verses?
Haply to wive and thrive as best I may:
And then she's yours.
Dear, look up:
Believe it.
And in that quarrel use it to the death.
an emperor;
Enter CALIBAN with a burden of wood. A noise of thunder heard
Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
So can I give no reason, nor I will not,
The tenor of my book; trust not my age,
Men so disorder'd, so debosh'd and bold,
Sir, I thank God, I have been so well brought up
Ay, and make't manifest where she has lived,
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
of my flesh and blood; he that cherishes my flesh
Go with me. Once more, new servant, welcome:
Why, are you foolish? Can it be undone?
As for words, whose greatness answers words,
The English army is grown weak and faint:
Do, good my lord, your citizens entreat you.
But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
If he miscarry, farewell wars in France.
Take him, and use him well, he's worthy of it.
They have chose a consul that will from them take
him above, his complexion is higher than his; he
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
Than from it issued forced drops of blood:
Believe me, you are marvellously changed.
Shall make it good, or do his best to do it,
For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
True, true; we are four.
Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound;
No, no, I am as ugly as a bear;
For mine own ends; indeed, to gain the popedom,
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
That such a thing bechanced would make me sad?
I will, lady.
Or else let Talbot perish with this shame.
I'll haste the writer and withal
ACT V
shotten herring. There live not three good men
Here pleasures court mine eyes, and mine eyes shun them,
Being scarce made up,
Exeunt
Say, Henry King of England, come into the court.
O, when she had writ it and was reading it over, she
Till Hymen's torch be lighted: but vain;
now with the doctor at the deanery, and there married.
Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
themselves may; but the many will be too chill and
To play my part in Fortune's pageant.
pretty barne! A boy or a child, I wonder? A
Master Brook, I will first make bold with your
Exeunt
Without a heart to dare or sword to draw
That I have said to some my standers by
'Thus must thou speak,' and 'thus thy body bear:'
My father, and a king.
To most ignoble stooping.
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
And I do stand engaged to many Greeks,
No, not a creature enters in my house.
Thus, in this strange and sad habiliment,
Whose rags shamed gilded arms, whose naked breast
I am glad on't: I desire no more delight
With all my force, pursuit and policy.
And take you by the hand; but then you'll think--
Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause.
that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be
She is not well; but yet she has her health: she's
My lessons make no music in three parts.
Hie thee again:
Join with the present sickness that I have;
Against my brother Lucius?
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
To have his title live in Aquitaine;
Trust me, a good knot: I have good cheer at home;
I am gone, though I am here: there is no love in
I do consent--
Go fetch them hither: if they deny to come.
Where's Bohemia? speak.
Take heed o' the foul fiend: obey thy parents;
Enter COMINIUS
Kneels
Why, what's the matter? does he rave?
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
The king will venture at it. Either the cardinal,
To entertain the lag-end of my life
Like Perseus' horse: where's then the saucy boat
Knocking within
What, are you chafed?
Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be
Smother'd in errors, feeble, shallow, weak,
And was embark'd to cross to Burgundy;
Enter LODOVICO. MONTANO, CASSIO carried in a chair, and Officers with IAGO, prisoner
You can fool no more money out of me at this throw:
With all my heart, I'll send the emperor My hand:
The upper Germany, can dearly witness,
Worthy many babes and beggars!
To this my fair beloved: therefore, I pray you,
Of heavenly oaths, vow'd with integrity.
That by no means I may discover them
That the contents will show.
Of men's impossibilities, have preserved thee.
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
[Reads]  'Great deputy, the welkin's vicegerent and
Will not you go?
cottages princes' palaces. It is a good divine that
But for my bonny Kate, she must with me.
thee, my dearest partner of greatness, that thou
And will as tenderly be led by the nose
But, master mayor, if Henry be your king,
Render me worthy of this noble wife!
Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,
for an ass.
Conveniently the rest convey;
I have full cause of weeping; but this heart
And large proportion of his strong-knit limbs.
Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
Amazed, my lord? why looks your highness sad?
SCENE I. The plains of Philippi.
Ay; and as idle as she may hang together, for want
The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame.
No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay,
more eloquence in a sugar touch of them than in the
That so I may, by this device, at least
To bear with patience
By the second hour i' the morn.
Nay, that's a mock: I have seen a lady's nose
No, nor look'd on us.
Why, how now, sons and brother! at a strife?
No vessel can peep forth, but 'tis as soon
Is wretchedness deprived that benefit,
But for his own; and for the right of that
Who hath for four or five removes come short
Meanwhile I am possess'd of that is mine.
But love, first learned in a lady's eyes,
Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
And then you fled into this abbey here,
As seek to soften that--than which what's harder?--
Open the gates; here's Gloucester that would enter.
And little bless'd with the soft phrase of peace:
And loyal wife.
Live here in heaven and may look on her;
the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly
Dry up thy marrows, vines, and plough-torn leas;
This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
All of companionship.
I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,
O, save me, Hubert, save me! my eyes are out
I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
Enter EGLAMOUR
Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram,
From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
Must murder wives much better than themselves
Some consequence yet hanging in the stars
Where?
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
Lord, how wise you are!
Direct you to the best!
I am for thee straight: take thou the
O Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent
Here's a young lad framed of another leer:
does not greatly care.
Upon mine honour, he is prisoner.
Ourselves to be the slaves of chance and flies
O, help, ho! light! a surgeon!
Thus then, thou most renown'd: Caesar entreats,
Had she such power,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
To it, boy! Marcus, loose when I bid.
Nor will he know his purse, or yield me this,
It is, my lord.
We do request your kindest ears, and after,
Aaron and thou look down into this den,
Enter TYBALT and others
Howsoe'er 'tis strange,
Be of good cheer;
That misbegotten devil, Faulconbridge,
The splinter of a lance. Even so much.
Or thou or I, Somerset, will be protector,
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
The commons will not then be satisfied.
I have this while with leaden thoughts been press'd:
My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
Much danger do I undergo for thee.
Exit
Enter MISTRESS PAGE
fits you, search out of the calendar, and nobody
Pray you, walk near: I'll speak with you anon.
Strike, as thou didst at Caesar; for, I know,
Enter LEONTES, with ANTIGONUS, Lords and others
Our sufferance vainly: now the time is flush,
In your imagination hold
Are levying powers: we must straight make head:
He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
One that gives out himself Prince Florizel,
Are then in council; and the state of man,
Not yours, in good sooth! Heart! you swear like a
open all our proceedings. O, I could divide myself
Do you see this, O God?
I'll do any thing now that is virtuous; but I
Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen:
Do comfort and not burn. 'Tis not in thee
Your honour has through Ephesus pour'd forth
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.
To prattle for himself.
I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
You are, you are--O royal Pericles!
And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms,
Bear that proportion to my flesh and blood
different names--sure, more,--and these are of the
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
And left me bare to weather.
Your son-in-law is far more fair than black.
Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions,
And one Deformed is one of them: I know him; a'
Than most have of his age.
to be turned away, is not that as good as a hanging to you?
Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
Let's further think of this;
Now, what's the matter. Provost?
By day and night to attend him carefully,
Come, cousin, canst thou quake, and change thy colour,
Stop there, stop there.
SCENE I. Antechamber in LEONTES' palace.
That die unmarried, ere they can behold
hear my lord speak: pray ye, go; there's my key:
Hath drops too few to wash her clean again
there is no slander in an allowed fool, though he do
I' the dungeon by a snuff?
Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman:
Leave not the mansion so long tenantless,
Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.
As kill a king!
Now, what admittance, lord?
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
shall know within this hour, if I may come to the
Trebonius knows his time; for, look you, Brutus.
For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
Upon the instant that she was accused,
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
And betimes I will, to the weird sisters:
trick of it?
Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in
But direct villany. Therefore, be abhorr'd
The king my brother shall have note of this.
When you have well deserved ten times as much
Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell.
SCENE I. Before an alehouse on a heath.
Without more help, could fight this royal battle!
Go you, and call my fool hither.
Flavius.
Wherefore shall I be content-a?
My Lord of Suffolk, within fourteen days
the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall
Good day, my lord.
Exit SPEED
Till she had laid it and conjured it down;
I fear me, never.
Welcome, dread Fury, to my woful house:
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
No notes of sally, for the heavens, sweet brother.
Over park, over pale,
O prince, I conjure thee, as thou believest
With honours like himself.
This sessions, to our great grief we pronounce,
Then, lest my lie be cropp'd to keep you clear,
Nor the division of a battle knows
Shall darken him for ever.
Which in his greatest need will shrink from him.
Unmanner'd dog! stand thou, when I command:
To some retention and appointed guard;
Be secret-false: what need she be acquainted?
His name and credit shall you undertake,
Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs;
Canonized and worshipped as a saint,
Against that power that bred it: there will she hide her,
We have, great Agamemnon, here in Troy
For if the king like not the comedy,
I do believe thee: live.
What a full fortune does the thicklips owe
And then the king will court thee for his dear;
What, is my beaver easier than it was?
Imagine I have said farewell already.
Perhaps some merchant hath invited him,
An army of good words; and I do know
I am content.
Whiles thou art waking.
My lord, we always have confess'd it.
Thou odouriferous stench! sound rottenness!
Fitted by kind for rape and villany:
Why strew'st thou sugar on that bottled spider,
Call in the letters patent that he hath
To fit your fancies to your father's will;
The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
For my part, I'll resign unto your grace
You are like to have a thin and slender pittance.
Crowned in Paris in despite of foes?
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
She is asleep: good wench, let's sit down quiet,
O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
That marks thee out for hell: I say, thou liest,
Here comes Bohemia.
Arm! arm! the enemy doth make assault!
To train ten thousand English to their side,
The question of Cordelia and her father
Was my dear friend: what malice was between you?
Die I a villain, then!
Shall point on me and gild my banishment.
Exeunt. Alarums
Why, what of him?
What, ho!
If that the Turkish fleet
None better in my kingdom. Get you gone,
Observed his courtship to the common people;
With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
You are come to Sandal in a happy hour;
Not Neoptolemus so mirable,
Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England.
Not till he hears how Antony is touch'd
Would I not have; but nature should bring forth,
My rage is gone;
The rabble should have first unroof'd the city,
Peace, cousin Percy; you will make him mad.
He has borne all things well: and I do think
Nay, that a' did not.
Now for the honour of the forlorn French!
Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack,
To grosser issues nor to larger reach
nothing, is to be a great part of your title; which
Small things make base men proud: this villain here,
I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
When I have show'd the unfitness,--
Like a bright exhalation m the evening,
That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me:
When would you have it done, sir?
And that it comes from old Andronicus,
BRAKENBURY reads it
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,
Ay, by my life;
SCENE II. Before LEONTES' palace.
And make proud Saturnine and his empress
SCENE VI. The same.
Have an immediate freedom of repeal.
Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
I shall devise something: but, I pray you, commend
Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
At what hour to-morrow
Go bid thy master well advise himself:
And Earl of Richmond; and this rich fair town
Your highness, lately sending into France,
Never so needful on the earth of France,
to present the prince's own person: if you meet the
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth.
their queen.
Cuckold! Wittol!--Cuckold! the devil himself hath
Safe at the Centaur; and the heedful slave
Enter the QUEEN, POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and IMOGEN
So, to our tent;
Desires your highness' company.
By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen,
This breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts.
And Phoebus 'gins arise,
Thought is free.
for if the devil be within and that temptation
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
In the large composition of this man?
And had the tribute of his supple knee,
I do begin to perceive that I am made an ass.
How furious and impatient they be,
'Tis to be doubted, madam.
where I erected it.
Hear while I speak it, love:
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
And what was he?
cover; they show well outward. The prince and Count
So her dead likeness, I do well believe,
With her companion grief must end her life.
to bed when she list, rise when she list, all is as
born in an hour: if the heavens had been pleased,
Who needs must know of her departure and
That thou wouldst tremble to receive thyself.
Alas, what noise?
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live;
Make battery to our ears with the loud music:
He may, my lord; has wherewithal: in him
Than for that angel knowledge you can say,
Re-enter FALSTAFF
It boots thee not to be compassionate:
O, once tell true, tell true, even for my sake!
His tongue obey'd his hand: who were below him
Shall see thee wither'd, bloody, pale and dead.
A pox of that jest! and I beshrew all shrows.
One honest man--mistake me not--but one;
[Reads]	Hermione is chaste;
Let us confess and turn it to a jest.
shalt woo her. Cried I aim? said I well?
To-morrow you shall have a sight of them.
Now his important blood will nought deny
But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,
Aside
That every nice offence should bear his comment.
Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
Not all these lords do vex me half so much
Well said, fairy Hugh.
Have uncontemn'd gone by him, or at least
Commend my best obedience to the queen:
What is this?
Do or undo, as if ourself were here.
my simple true judgment; or would you have me speak
O, if you raise this house against this house,
Where did I leave?
But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends
Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
Not of you.
In nightly revels and new jollity.
Seven? why, there were but four even now.
Good madam, do: I warrant it grieves my husband,
Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue.
Thy master dies thy scholar: to do thus
By you unhappied and disfigured clean:
Attends the emperor in his royal court.
When cowardice pursues and valour flies.
Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
Be bold to tell you that I am your son;
There stays a husband to make you a wife:
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!
I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point
I prithee, hear me speak.
And those swearings keep as true in soul
And, that thou mayst perceive my fear of this,
Lorenzo, certain, and my love indeed,
they'll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lt
That promises moe thousands: honour's train
I'll give a thousand pound to look upon him.
To doom the offenders, whatsoever they be
To yourself: why, she wooes you by a figure.
These kind of knaves I know, which in this plainness
What, is Lavinia then become so loose,
For new-made honour doth forget men's names;
And make conceive a bark of baser kind
O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see
If I may have your daughter to my wife,
The patron of my life and liberty.
To the Queen
Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure;
He will repent the breadth of his great voyage;
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
I had forgot thee: O, come in, Emilia;
This feather stirs; she lives! if it be so,
And make a mutual closure of our house.
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the
provision was out.
He cannot come, my lord; he is grievous sick.
Ay, marry, sweeting, if we could do that,
Combat with adverse planets in the heavens!
smooth-tongue, Spanish-pouch,--
I am glad, though you have ta'en a special stand to
I thank you: God be with you!
Therefore my son i' the ooze is bedded, and
But stay, O spite!
That, when we have found the king,--in which your pain
Their mediation; must I be unfolded
The cause of his arrival here in arms:
Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony,
Then swore he that he was a stranger here.
Has made thee swell thus.
For charity itself fulfills the law,
Villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore,
We have been guided by thee hitherto,
What, in the midst of the street?
Away, boy, from the troops, and save thyself;
For thousand Yorks he shall not hide his head,
By giving it the worship of revenge.
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
Leaps to be gone into my mother's bosom.
Vouchsafe to wear this ring.
And so am I for Rosalind.
Who saw the sun to-day?
No, Bolingbroke: if ever I were traitor,
Where be these knaves? What, no man at door
Hath in him closed; whereby he does receive
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy;
Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs,
And yet with charity. He was a man
O, ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your
Call hither to the stake my two brave bears,
Is general woe.
Why how now? do you speak in the sick tune?
Then yield thee, coward,
But breeds the giver a return exceeding
Durst I have done my will. O Cassius,
Name not religion, for thou lovest the flesh,
Knight of the noble order of Saint George,
Wilt thou go to bed, Malvolio?
If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
ACT V
With amber bracelets, beads and all this knavery.
A gentleman, and follower of my lady's.
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
Re-enter DON PEDRO
Now, go thy ways; thou hast tamed a curst shrew.
Here, with a cup that's stored unto the brim,--
And all the men and women merely players:
They burn him with their tapers
O, he is mad, Laertes.
major; so that it follows, I am rough and
Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded,
Beats as of flesh and blood; and, since I saw thee,
Under whose conduct came those powers of France
'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired;
Wast beaten from Modena, where thou slew'st
Then they for sudden joy did weep,
Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain;
That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And tell thy king I do not seek him now;
Was it not to refresh the mind of man
Lest it should bite its master, and so prove,
second day of audience. When you are hearing a
not strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out
Being urged at a time unseasonable.
That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong!
Gentle, hear me:
And by those claim their greatness, not by blood.
I never saw you in my life till now.
sworn that I am no fox; but he will not pass his
Yet you began rudely. What are you? what would you?
And, for the good report I hear of you
We are convented
O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black!
A very riband in the cap of youth,
To see their day and them our fortune give:
On him that thus doth tyrannize o'er me.
flesh ye; come on, young master.
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
O father Abram, what these Christians are,
Thou art a cure fit for a king.
How shall I dote on her with more advice,
To this dead man than you shall see me pay.
I did receive fair speechless messages:
Pray you, who does the wolf love?
What think you they portend?
Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
to light; murder cannot be hid long; a man's son
semblance of a maid,--that you have discovered
O sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost sixpence a
For henceforth of poor Claudio.
Pray, sir, put your sword up, if you please.
To recompense your love: doubt not but heaven
Go, rascals, go, and fetch my supper in.
Sir?
This palpable-gross play hath well beguiled
I tell you that which you yourselves do know;
Exeunt
Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they
And the issue there create
And God forbid a shallow scratch should drive
Then to Silvia let us sing,
And so I leave you both:
Is death to any he that utters them.
Sir, as concerning some entertainment of time, some
What's mine is yours and what is yours is mine.
My name is Roderigo.
I' the way of flattery further.
First, pardon me, my lord. A hue and cry
For that I am prepared and full resolved.
the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the
You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
Into a bush: under which bush's shade
To Lacedaemon did my land extend.
Thou art a widow; yet thou art a mother,
call him forth.
o'er his part; for the short and the long is, our
Bids them good morrow with a modest smile
As for my country I have shed my blood,
Did the sea cast it up?
Enter Ghost
And borne her cleanly by the keeper's nose?
Exeunt CORIOLANUS, COMINIUS, and others
Come hither: ah, you precious pander! Villain,
Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio,
Speak, hands for me!
Old Time the clock-setter, that bald sexton Time,
Yes, that a' did; and said they were devils
Pursued him still: and, three nights after this,
There is cold meat i' the cave; we'll browse on that,
To him the other two shall minister;
Peace, son! and show some reason, Buckingham,
being bid to ask what he would of the king, desired
'Tis well consented: presently away;
How will the country for these woful chances
I have more charity: but say, I warn'd ye;
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Have slime upon them, such as the aspic leaves
A gentleman of Tyre,
Which makes my whitest part black. The will of heaven
As many, worthy lady, to yourself:
To the trunk again, and shut the spring of it.
O, by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit.
To save her life, I'll say she is not so.
Rather than so, come fate into the list.
ACT I
But there, where I have garner'd up my heart,
father brother; and then the prince my brother and
Your reason?
Nay, but, Beatrice,--
COUNTESS
SCENE VI. Another room in the Garter Inn.
To raise my state to title of a queen,
As touching France, to give a greater sum
Discipled of the bravest: he lasted long;
To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my limbs:
Whispers with BLANCH
By my valour, the most complete champion that ever I
Or he shall pay for this.
Enter CLEOMENES and DION
Will you dine with me to-morrow?
Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
That I myself have done unto myself?
There's not a god left unsolicited.
Show me the place:
the streets,
Than the queen's life? a gracious innocent soul,
But wherefore could not I pronounce 'Amen'?
And tell them, there thy fixed foot shall grow
Whereof ungrateful man, with liquorish draughts
With them Sir Thomas Vaughan, prisoners.
Flourish. Enter the FRENCH KING, the DAUPHIN, the DUKES of BERRI and BRETAGNE, the Constable, and others
Nor will I sue, although the king have mercies
Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
My lord,
The people know it; and have now received
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
Nay, but, my lord,--
Myself could else out-frown false fortune's frown.
A gracious king that pardons all offences
Ratcliff, my lord; 'tis I. The early village-cock
O, sir, pardon me!
and altogether against my will.
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
He were mine enemy? what friend of mine
helmed must upon a warranted need give him a better
As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
Go fetch him hither; let me look upon him.
For here we need it not.
And choke the herbs for want of husbandry.
For who is living, if those two are gone?
What will become of me now, wretched lady!
Yet hear me speak. Assist me in my purpose,
Which we durst never yet, and with strain'd pride
In me to lose: thus your own proper wisdom
A banish'd woman from my Harry's bed?
Exit CHARLES
and shall, at the least of thy sweet notice, bring
The fair, the chaste and unexpressive she.
When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,
to me in the orchard.
Till in her ashes she lie buried.
What is your difference? speak.
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
So part we sadly in this troublous world,
My gracious sovereign, as I rode from Calais,
Answer I must and shall do with my life.
And turn'd crown'd kings to merchants.
That he will not be won to aught against him.
Unto their issue.
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
My waned state for Henry's regal crown.
thy hand to laugh a little.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  When he was made a shriver,
Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say
Come down, and welcome me to this world's light;
Pray you, stand further from me.
And appetite, an universal wolf,
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
The shadow'd livery of the burnish'd sun,
Now therefore let us hence; and lose no hour,
Great griefs, I see, medicine the less; for Cloten
The voice of dead Thaisa!
We should by this, to all our lamentation,
That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear,
Blood will I draw on thee, thou art a witch,
But Romeo may not; he is banished:
That ever ear did hear to such effect:
Affront his eye.
The heavy accent of thy moving tongue
Even make me wild: O slave, of no more trust
I should but teach him how to tell my story.
Exeunt with CAESAR's body
Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
I thrice presented him a kingly crown,
in plain terms, gone to heaven.
If you shall send them word you will not come,
with mine enemy; I have undone three tailors; I have
But like a foul mis-shapen stigmatic,
There's none within.
virginity; and cry 'He that will give most shall
Truly, however else.
Have found the ground of study's excellence
Here PROSPERO discovers FERDINAND and MIRANDA playing at chess
No, madam, no; I may not leave it so:
Bind up those tresses. O, what love I note
Fetch us in fuel; and be quick, thou'rt best,
Why then, a ladder quaintly made of cords,
And she is exceeding wise.
Hail, heaven!
Before that England give the French the foil.
And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn,
Fetch me this herb; and be thou here again
the will. Come, be a man. Drown thyself! drown
The Douglas is; and I beseech your grace
For, on their answer, will we set on them:
Against my crown, my oath, my dignity,
Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
Will make him burst his lead and rise from death.
Thou say'st his sports were hinderd by thy brawls:
My lord,--
To your protection I commend me, gods.
Exeunt
let me in.
[Reads]  'with a child of our grandmother Eve, a
The agent of thy foul inconstancy,
ingrateful injury; to report otherwise, were a
Who was by good appliance recovered.
This proves me still a sheep.
But keep the hills and upper regions;
See, Reignier, see, thy daughter prisoner!
is he: now, you are not ipse, for I am he.
did not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly:
Should loosen him and me.
Being captain of a pinnace, threatens more
Yet hath Sir Proteus, for that's his name,
[Aside]  I had rather lose the battle than that sister
All their petitions are as freely theirs
But this thy countenance, still lock'd in steel,
My plight requires it. Do not weep, good fools;
Marry, that can Hero;
'Break up the senate till another time,
I and ten thousand in this luckless realm
It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
And even now my burthen'd heart would break,
But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
And yet you halt not.
To sell and mart your offices for gold
And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.
Out, sword, and wound
Till with thy warlike sword, despite of late,
gentleman of all temperance. But leave we him to
Like motes and shadows see them move awhile;
Enter a Servant
to be known a reasonable creature. Who is his
We the globe can compass soon,
It is my business too. Farewell.
Ah, no, no, no, it is mine only son!
'Tis destiny unshunnable, like death:
To whose flint bosom my condemned lord
And now, instead of mounting barded steeds
He is their god: he leads them like a thing
Content yourself. God knows I loved my niece;
yesterday in despite of my invention.
I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me?
Make claim and title to the crown of France.
Hail, royal sir!
Ford, on whom to-night I will be revenged, and I
Why, how now, general! no more of that.
'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old;
Enter HAMLET, HORATIO, and MARCELLUS
Marcus Luccicos, is not he in town?
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
Must fill, or else my project fails,
She levell'd at our purposes, and, being royal,
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
so we wept, and there was the first gentleman-like
Alas! for whose sake did I that ill deed?
tongue speaks.
I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
I am your own for ever.
Enter SIMONIDES, reading a letter, at one door: the Knights meet him
Or does he walk? or is he on his horse?
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
There to dispose this treasure in mine arms,
By what observance, I pray you?
But those as sleep and think not on their sins,
Thus raps you? Are you well?
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
BISHOP
Change not your offer made in heat of blood;
That their good souls may be appeased with slaughter
My father's of a better nature, sir,
O, thy letter, thy letter! he's a good friend of mine:
Unfurnish me of reason. They are come.
And mingle with the English epicures:
Ha, ha, ha!
Her sister Katharina welcomed you withal?
The beds i' the east are soft; and thanks to you,
Prove violence; in the which three great ones suffer,
THE ORDER OF THE CORONATION
shoulder-blade is out.
to heat as butter; a man of continual dissolution
My bed was ever to thy son as true
You shall not now be stol'n, you have locks upon you;
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
My own knee! when I was about thy years, Hal, I was
that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged
And light thee on thy way to Mantua:
For the contempt of empire.
There is our captain: we'll follow him that's fled;
Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
As a friend.
And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on:
SCENE I. GLOUCESTER's castle.
Exeunt all but QUEEN MARGARET and SUFFOLK
We are all frail.
These violent delights have violent ends
To that I'll urge him: therefore thou shalt vow
Nurse calls within
Drum beats
And meet me presently at Berkeley.
How many children hast thou, widow? tell me.
And haste her to the purpose.
Lord, Lord! to see what folly reigns in us!
Me too, let me go thither.
To shed obsequious tears upon this trunk.
Give me your favour: my dull brain was wrought
Enter Outlaws, with DUKE and THURIO
The face of an old Roman coin, scarce seen.
And, if you can be merry then, I'll say
He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy,
And may, through all the world: 'tis yours; and we,
And bear it from me to the empress.
That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince
So sweet a death as hanging presently.
And so once more return and tell his grace.
Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower,
Why bear you these rebukes and answer not?
Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes,
Of fool and feather that they got in France,
Re-enter BIONDELLO, with LUCENTIO and BIANCA
To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes
Once more adieu! my father at the road
I prithee go and get me some repast;
So much she doteth on her Mortimer.
For shame, put up.
'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
Would blow you through and through.
I swear by that which I will lose for thee,
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
Counts it your weal he have his liberty.
Would give it quick consideration, for
SCENE II. Another room in the castle.
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
I do beseech thee--
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
the luggage of our camp: the French might have a
Hath my behavior given to your displeasure,
all myself,--
Can found his state in safety. Caphis, ho!
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
Exeunt, fighting
From France to England. Never such a power
I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day.
My best-esteem'd acquaintance: hie thee, go.
The oldest hath borne most: we that are young
Enter SUFFOLK in conference with KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER and EXETER
I am glad he went not in himself: if he had found
O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
Have studied physic, through which secret art,
Like music.
And see our gentle queen how well she fares:
O, they love least that let men know their love.
Let me see thee froth and lime: I am at a word; follow.
The people are abused; set on. This paltering
Enter Troilus's Boy
As much as one sound cudgel of four foot--
bed of Ware in England, set 'em down: go, about it.
Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die,
And rich: here is a water, look ye.
No longer for my flatterer: he is drown'd
Already have I been false to Valentine
With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us,
these four threes of herdsmen.
For God doth know how many now in health
Whether the tyranny be in his place,
Enter PAGE and MISTRESS PAGE
Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
Liar and slave!
detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.
Or else beshrew them both.
Then, tell me, what doth he upon the sea?
look upon his removedness; from whom I have this
See, who comes here?
Was of more danger, did compound for her
And Henry, though he be infortunate,
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
I'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently.
I never saw a fellow worse bested,
They go up
And have their palates both for sweet and sour,
revel and applause, transform ourselves into beasts!
To EDGAR and KENT
should speak truly, little better than one of the
And bears with glasses, elephants with holes,
Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes:
Exeunt
No glory lives behind the back of such.
Exeunt
Good brother, as thou lovest and honourest arms,
in the market-place.
Exit
And pray'd me oft forbearance; did it with
What would your grace have done unto him now?
A cry within 'A sail, a sail, a sail!'
Our army's in the field
Lucilius' Servant	Put in now, Titus.
Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.
A prologue arm'd, but not in confidence
I put myself to thy direction, and
Grow in the veins of actions highest rear'd,
Do't and thou hast the one half of my heart;
were the most needless creatures living, should we
And from this swarm of fair advantages
Offer'st me brass?
What got he by that? You have broke his pate with
All little jealousies, which now seem great,
cry 'The devil!'
If you do keep your promises in love
And then I would no other company.
Shall witness live in brass of this day's work:
Are master of the feast: Cadwal and I
I cannot love him: let him send no more;
Amongst a grove, the very straightest plant;
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Guard me, beseech ye.
you your kindred had made my eyes water ere now. I
Wrong right, base noble, old young, coward valiant.
Sweet love! sweet lines! sweet life!
This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
Whilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm,
thankful to thee shall be my study, and my profit
Let not the world see fear and sad distrust
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
Under the covering of a careful night,
Let's in;
shall be to your good; for my father's house and all
Your napkin is too little:
Confirm it so, mine honourable lord.
That, having our fair order written down,
Will well become the seat of majesty,
With letters of commission from the king.
Wrinkles forbid!
Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
And, which became him like a prince indeed,
Whom worthily you would have now succeed.
Come, Cassius' sword, and find Titinius' heart.
This is the air; that is the glorious sun;
That almost freezes up the heat of life:
And strew'd repentent ashes on his head.
Than but to know't a little.
Safe, Antony; Brutus is safe enough:
Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
And Rice ap Thomas with a valiant crew;
The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I,
Good night, Titinius. Noble, noble Cassius,
Exeunt GREMIO and HORTENSIO
Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes,
We four indeed confronted were with four
count's serving-man than ever she bestowed upon me;
Fell by our servants, by those men we loved most;
And I do think she's thirty.
Shake off their sterile curse.
Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly,
The mutiny he there hastes t' oppress;
Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
This is a sorry sight.
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
With all his threatening band of Typhon's brood,
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
My husband say that she was false!
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
Minime, honest master; or rather, master, no.
If, after three days' space, thou here be'st found
That slanders me with murder's crimson badge.
Upon this French going out, took he upon him,
Celestial as thou art, O, pardon, love, this wrong,
Must it be so? it must not be. My lords,
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
Well roared, Lion.
Better at home, if 'would I might' were 'may.'
Give way there, and go on!
mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids
Shed yet some small drops from thy tender spring,
And make bold power look pale--they threw their caps
men's liking: and yet he would not swear; praised
No more, good York; sweet Somerset, be still:
Thy beauty, that doth make me like thee well,
SCENE I. Troy. A street.
That ever made eye swerve, had force and knowledge
Stay, Roman brethren! Gracious conqueror,
I should judge now unhappily.
listening. Now I begin: Imprimis, we came down a
And he that slew them fouler than he is:
Prejudicates the business and would seem
I had well hoped thou wouldst have denied Beatrice,
SCENE IV. Other plains in Gascony.
Ay, husband: can he that deny?
Than prosecute the meanest or the best
Deals with our cardinal; and, as I trow,--
When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
As did the former lions of your blood.
Follow me, and receive't.
That lowliness is young ambition's ladder,
Which you do here forbid me, royal Priam.
Say, have I thy consent that they shall die?
Herald, away; and throughout every town
That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper,
And, truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
the ears of profiting, that what thou speakest may
ACT II
I'ld wish no better choice, and think me rarely wed.
Being none of his, refuse him: this concludes;
Thy modesty can beg.
'Better a witty fool, than a foolish wit.'
Of thine affairs, as well as thou of mine?
Were you made the messenger?
I will, sweet queen.
Who dies, that bears not one spurn to their graves
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
Will answer in mine honour.
They are both in either's powers; but this swift business
Out of my sight!
Exit
Out, out! My lords, an please you, 'tis not so;
What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
To look that way thou wert.
Exit
where you shall hear us confer of this, and by an
Whom our fast-growing scene must find
Receive him,
Shall we go see the reliques of this town?
Why thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest
Stealing so poorly.
Ay, and amid this hurly I intend
Sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields!
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
I was too strict to make mine own away;
No doubt the murderous knife was dull and blunt
That put Armado's page out of his part!
If you'll bestow a small--of what you have little--
Woman its pretty self--into a waggish courage:
Prepare you, generals:
Here is a silly stately style indeed!
Farewell to your worship.
Which fence the roots they grow by and defend them,
ACT V
When midnight comes, knock at my chamber-window:
Be of comfort;
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds,
To crouch in litter of your stable planks,
Sir, I will tell you;
You have a noble and a true conceit
What subject can give sentence on his king?
churchmen, Master Page, we have some salt of our
withers are unwrung.
Come on, sit down: come on, and do your best
To outlook conquest and to win renown
Make servants of their betters.
Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.
Thy master in bleeding: say his name, good friend.
I were unmannerly, to take you out,
That needs must light on this ingratitude.
At last by notes of household harmony
Exeunt
They all read their letters
Lord bless me! I pray God! for I am never able to
The mighty sender, doth he prize you at.
His funerals shall not be in our camp,
A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly:
And bring some covering for this naked soul,
He would not!
I hope the briefness of your answer made
Exit
On Holmedon's plains. Of prisoners, Hotspur took
For many weary months.
We have at disadvantage fought and did
Upon a just survey, take Titus' part,
Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
No better a musician than the wren.
false report of him.
The loss of such a lord includes all harm.
And now forthwith shall articles be drawn
people cry 'Troilus'? Helenus is a priest.
'Tis not my speeches that you do mislike,
Is ebony like her? O wood divine!
They answer, in a joint and corporate voice,
But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
Forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands.
When she for thy repeal was suppliant,
goats, Audrey. And how, Audrey? am I the man yet?
The time of universal peace is near:
Why, look you, I am whipp'd and scourged with rods,
Even this.
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds
Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour!
Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
She is deliver'd, lords; she is deliver'd.
Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch:
For did I but suspect a fearful man
Prove holy water on thee! Imogen,
Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.
Did I deserve no more than a fool's head?
'This general applause and loving shout
That bites the first-born infants of the spring.
By the bad voice.
Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?
accusation, uncovered slander, unmitigated rancour,
Thou sun, that comfort'st, burn! Speak, and
Took some displeasure at him; at least he judged so:
No, he must not.
Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
Nay, this was but his dream.
Must lie and fester.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, LEPIDUS, and OCTAVIA
My brother might not claim him; nor your father,
Tullus Aufidius will appear well in these wars, his
Of what you should forget. Now, good my liege
Should a like language use to all degrees
If I but knew him, with my love and duty
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
And I am prest unto it: therefore, speak.
And humbly now upon my bended knee,
Being cross'd in conference by some senators.
And Humphrey with the peers be fall'n at jars:
it is naught. In respect that it is solitary, I
Looking on his hands
SCENE II. The forest.
Since not to be avoided it falls on me.
Then leave this chat; and, good Biron, now prove
Most honour'd Timon,
marriage, and God give thee joy!
Or shall we think the subtle-witted French
Ere a fortnight make me elder,
Or if thou hast not broke from company
ROSALIND swoons
And, honest company, I thank you all,
What is your will, sir, that you send for me?
Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
One noble man that hath one spark of fire,
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
Not like a corse; or if, not to be buried,
Or by the worth of man's eternal soul,
Only to show his pomp as well in France
Still your own foes, deliver you as most
Of nature's germens tumble all together,
Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
No, he's in Tartar limbo, worse than hell.
That hardly we escaped the pride of France.
The youth says well. Now hear our English king;
duke had crotchets in him. He would be drunk too;
Very well: you being then, if you be remembered,
SCENE I. Belmont. Avenue to PORTIA'S house.
And full of new-found oaths; which he will break
Forgive them what they have committed here
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
not so much as a ducat for delivering your letter:
Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.
You must be gone from hence immediately.
Strengthen'd by interchangement of your rings;
Relent, sweet Hermia: and, Lysander, yield
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
Exit
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
With which the time will load him. The archbishop
Come hither, you that would be combatants:
Your house, but for this virgin that doth prop it,
whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke;
Let there be gall enough in thy ink, though thou
Did I redeem; a wreck past hope he was:
And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
I say 'tis copper: darest thou be as good as thy word now?
My life, my joy, my food, my all the world!
noble Marcius.
Who, on my soul, hath wilfully betray'd
And this shall all be buried by my death,
Launcelot Gobbo; do not run; scorn running with thy
Thy heaven is on earth; thine eyes and thoughts
To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
Reflect on Rome as Titan's rays on earth,
Out, devil! I remember them too well:
A stubborn will to please,
All these well furnish'd by the Duke of Bretagne
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
Romeo will answer it.
I had been happy, if the general camp,
common houses, I know no law: bring them away.
The fundamental reasons of this war,
He was not taken well; he had not dined:
not in the lineaments of Nature.
If secret powers
write with a goose-pen, no matter: about it.
Whose naked natures live in an the spite
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals
Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had,
Kills me to look on't. Let there be no honour
And I, her husband, contradict your bans.
For none but Samsons and Goliases
rogues are marvellous poor.
We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
I am to learn;
Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
If you strike me, you are no gentleman;
In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?
Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
undermine it, the walls will stand till they fall of
More than to Richmond?  for the selfsame heaven
It must of force.
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
Why, this bond is forfeit;
O, go not yet! Even thus two friends condemn'd
I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
For ever will I walk upon my knees,
Worm nor snail, do no offence.
In what place of the field doth Calchas keep?
Misconstrue us in him and wail his death.
Lucius preconsul: and to you the tribunes,
Strike those that make them; and their story is
His daughters seek his death: ah, that good Kent!
For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
Go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault,
Injurious world! most damned Angelo!
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
Convenient is it. Make a swift return;
Have bared my bosom to the thunder-stone;
And whither go they?
Both you of my inclining, and the rest:
No less beloved. The Roman emperor's letters,
As quarrelous as the weasel; nay, you must
becomes the ground.
Thy name and honourable family,
That you have but slumber'd here
Let me say 'amen' betimes, lest the devil cross my
If they miscarry, we miscarry too.
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
Nay, my lord, he called you Jack, and said he would
Exit
Will ye be gone?
Nor ask advice of any other thought
He had two sons: if this be worth your hearing,
Brought me to Mytilene. But, good sir,
Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it.
By Juno, I swear, ay.
desires to speak with you.
That sore to ride before him to the field.
Your salt tears' head: now to all sense 'tis gross
Shut your mouth, dame,
The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,
to your lips? would they were clyster-pipes for your sake!
So deep suspicion, where all faith was meant.
And this.
Might have prevented many. Eros, ho!
Doors, that were ne'er acquainted with their wards
Sings
Ay me! for aught that I could ever read,
Show me which way.
marry, once before he won it of me with false dice,
'I Pray, sir'--Plague upon't! I cannot bring
Ay, a token from Troilus.
and I will have more time to prepare me, or they
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
We English warriors wot not what it means.
No less in space, validity, and pleasure,
herself with laughing.
SCENE III. OLIVIA's house.
Romeo, bon jour! there's a French salutation
That like the stately Phoebe 'mongst her nymphs
you from dishonour in doing it.
The rate of usance here with us in Venice.
Gracious triumpher in the eyes of Rome!
'Thou canst not choose but know who I am. If thou
God knows, of pure devotion; being call'd
And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
Wall holds up his fingers
Return, return, and make thy love amends.
I have, when you have heard what I can say:
Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how:
Did I not tell you she was innocent?
Farewell, old Gaunt: thy sometimes brother's wife
And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that
The King of Scots; whom she did send to France,
To an asp, which she applies to her breast
Perform'd in this wide gap of time since first
And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace,
Who's that which calls?
Enter a Messenger
Of my kind uncle, that I know will give;
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
And did supply thee at thy garden-house
Come on your ways; open your mouth; here is that
I tell thee truly, herald,
This is the mouth o' the cell: no noise, and enter.
I hope not; I had as lief bear so much lead.
Now, sir, have I met you again? there's for you.
I pray thee, let me look on that again.
where he answers again,
Still more fool I shall appear
As this hath made me. Who was he that said
O, I must, madam:
Who is most inward with the royal duke?
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
I dare not, sir
Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honour, breath,
And, but she spoke it dying, I would not
O happy Leonatus! I may say
go to, no more; lest it be rather thought you affect
Say to the king the knowledge of the broil
sing a note, sometime through the throat, as if you
for it. He surely affected her for her wit.
With holy breath.
Exeunt
though they can outstrip men, they have no wings to
inch narrow to an ell broad!
the flowers of Troy, I can tell you: but mark
That water-walled bulwark, still secure
With fresh suspicions? No; to be once in doubt
O, where's young Talbot? where is valiant John?
Good faith, I'll prove him,
With untired spirits and formal constancy:
Four fixed, and the fifth did whirl about
O Antony!--Nay, I will take thee too.
Therefore no marvel though Demetrius
And as the morning steals upon the night,
The king, thy sovereign, is not quite exempt
What good condition can a treaty find
I am fall'n in this offence.
Because myself do want my servants' fortune:
Who is my principal?
All's not offence that indiscretion finds
button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
I pray thee, give it me.
Concur together, severally entreat him.
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
afflictions, say, that I cannot pleasure such an
Who is that that spake?
Thy speech had alter'd it. Hold, here's gold for thee:
estimation.'
You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made;
Our queen and all our elves come here anon.
And lookest to command the prince and realm.
To hold opinion with Pythagoras,
Let's see, let's see.
With an importing visage; and she told me,
To seek her on the mountains near to Milford;
Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
Yes, it is already garrison'd.
His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest,
Sun that warms you here shall shine on me;
Of blue Olympus.
That all men follow.
ACT II
I gave my love a ring and made him swear
Is husband in my mouth! even for that name,
Your importunacy cease till after dinner,
Be patient, lords; and give them leave to speak.
Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
the lady of the house?
How now! what news?
Had he done so, himself had borne the crown,
Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn,
Somerset, we'll see thee sent away.
Upon some present business of the state
To quench mine honour: they would shame to make me
To fill King Edward's fame with prisoner kings
Leaves them invisible, and his siege is now
Whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge
By those that feel their sharpness:
I know they do; and I have well deserved it.
something in't that stings his nature; for on the
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son,
Adieu, good master doctor.
To set against me for your merriment:
Ay,
Enter PISANIO
No, I warrant you, he will not hear of godliness.
[Aside]  I am almost afraid to stand alone
Out of my grief and my impatience,
therefore he scorns to say his prayers, lest a'
His counsel now might do me golden service;
Which wrought to his desire.
Exeunt
They do not love that do not show their love.
great, reasonable great: marry, for my part, I
Exeunt
Enter AGRIPPA at one door, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS at another
A Roman,
A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
My father, as nurse said, did never fear,
conceived against your son, there is no fitter
Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack?
Heaven guide thy pen to print thy sorrows plain,
to him, it's all one: by God's lid, it does one's
Best draw my sword: and if mine enemy
Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of
The court's a learning place, and he is one--
As gravity's revolt to wantonness.
Neglected, rather;
Good company; with them shall Proteus go:
In your rich wisdom to excuse or hide
O Lord, have mercy on me, woful man!
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Even to my person, than I thought he would
when he shall come to his account, he knows not
When I did first impart my love to you,
[Aside]  For this,
[Advancing]
Tarry I here, I but attend on death:
Will be as rash in the repeal, as hasty
My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
Let me embrace with old Vincentio,
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
be as it may: though patience be a tired mare, yet
To tell the passion of my sovereign's heart;
To-morrow toward London back again,
Unyoke this seizure and this kind regreet?
Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's two sons,
O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
We'll but commend what we intend to sell.
death affright?
If ever she leave Troilus! Time, force, and death,
Lead me, my lord? I do not need your help:
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep.
Let heaven revenge; for I may never lift
that I found; it beggars any man that keeps it: it
Good sir,--
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
Of capital treason 'gainst the king and crown;
A prodigy of fear and a portent
And do as adversaries do in law,
The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw.
which is in the keeping of Paulina,--a piece many
Ha! am I king? 'tis so: but Edward lives.
proverbs: he will give the devil his due.
you shall be called to no more payments, fear no
And ever will--though he do shake me off
Exeunt CARDINAL, SOMERSET, and others
come in my way, so: if he do not, if I come in his
And it must follow, as the night the day,
O, good madam, there can be none yet.
Of fantasy, of dreams and ceremonies:
Except you mean with obstinate repulse
I'll hide my master from the flies, as deep
wrangle in when you have nothing else to do.
Enter three Watchmen, to guard KING EDWARD IV's tent
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Exeunt
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS, before their tent
Show'd like a mine. Their dwarfish pages were
Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir.
To make it wander in an unknown field?
Why?
And bootless 'tis to tell you we will go:
Abide me, if thou darest; for well I wot
A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
Is thy name Tyrrel?
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE with a torch
I'll stay above the hill, so both may shoot.
And therefore I will take the Nevils' parts
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves;'
upon London-stone, I charge and command that, of the
I heard no letter from my master since
The circumstance consider'd, good my lord,
I am sorry that the Duke of Buckingham
designs, and of great import indeed, too, but let
The wife I chose? there can be no evasion
Not dallying with a brace of courtezans,
Many a battle have I won in France,
Be it so.
My lord, I hear none.
More richer than my tongue.
Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
Sir, it is a mystery.
DON
Give me fresh garments. Mine own, Helicanus;
Thy crazed title to my certain right.
truly: wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
Oh, no, no, no, no: my meaning in saying he is a
The Archbishop's grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer,
'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd
And know how well I have deserved the ring,
which I called Roderigo. My father was that
'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
That laid the sentence of dread banishment
You are welcome, gentlemen! come, musicians, play.
disrelish and abhor the Moor; very nature will
Ay, that there is. Our court, you know, is haunted
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes:
Sirrah, your father's dead;
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
And I would call it, fair play.
And was he not in England prisoner?
If, after two days' shine, Athens contain thee,
Hath lately married. Shall our coffers, then,
of your daughter, who is now queen.
Out of thy garments.
The best-regarded virgins of our clime
Enter HERMIONE guarded; PAULINA and Ladies attending
Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean
To heave the traitor Somerset from hence,
[Speaking together]  How now!
let that appear when there is no need of such
Thou'rt kind.
And look you get a prayer-book in your hand,
That robb'd my soldiers of their heated spleen;
And, be assured, you'll find a difference,
Submits her to thy might; and of thee craves
And she died singing it: that song to-night
Or brought a faggot to bright-burning Troy?
My purpose would prove well. It cannot be
What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us?
Is not to walk in.
From these devourers to be banished!
liberty, these are the only men.
Would through the airy region stream so bright
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.
Than by self-offences weighing.
Into the vale of years,--yet that's not much--
My lord,
ACT III
And I, of whom his eyes had seen the proof
Which if thou please to hide in this true bosom.
throats to be cut, and works to be done; and there
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
The sugar'd game before thee. But myself,
If she be up, I'll speak with her; if not,
of grossness. He's in yellow stockings.
Say, Somerville, what says my loving son?
Were I but now the lord of such hot youth
A royal train, believe me. These I know:
THE SONG.
Walk in the orchard and our whole discourse
He's now in Florence.
'Tis nothing less: conceit is still derived
Nay, then thou wilt starve, sure; for here's nothing
I have spoken better of you than you have or will to
utter all to thee.
And bonny Kate and sometimes Kate the curst;
Exit
Do not draw back your hand; I'll take no more;
Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I
Then should I know you by description;
And here commit you to my lord cardinal
customary gown.
Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck
Because kind nature doth require it so:
Let them from forth a sawpit rush at once
I am a gentleman.
And make a riot on the gentle brow
It cannot be i' the eye, for apes and monkeys
o' th' ear: or if I can see my glove in his cap,
Come, sir; we will better it in Pisa.
May I be bold to say so, sir?
you.
Did never meddle with my thoughts.
All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
Here, on her breast,
Bring forth the gallant, let us hear him speak.
If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you,
Nor other satisfaction do I crave,
me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.
Rank of gross diet, shall be enclouded,
To make this banquet; which I wish may prove
That you do speak to the people.
But the respects thereof are nice and trivial,
In daily thanks, that gave us such a prince;
Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field,
title, and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till
Dream on thy cousins smother'd in the Tower:
I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
Where one but goes abreast: keep then the path;
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
Be practised well to this, or they'll ne'er do't.
SCENE I. Fields between Dartford and Blackheath.
Now, lords, my choler being over-blown
Is now converted: but now I was the lord
'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
hunts, but one that fills up the cry. My money is
We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son,
Save you, fair queen!
My friends,
'You must amend your drunkenness.'
Of usance for my moneys, and you'll not hear me:
No more than were I painted I would wish
not bite another, and wherefore should one bastard?
Either his gracious promise, which you might,
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know,
You have made fair work, I fear me.--Pray, your news?--
something of that jealous complexion.
Upon the part o' the people, in whose power
Bartholomew-tide, blind, though they have their
I have no judgment in an honest face:
That thou shalt know. Trojan, he is awake,
Not Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
Of the king's grace and pardon. The grieved commons
cause between an orange wife and a fosset-seller;
Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,
Is that a wonder?
Imprison'd thou didst painfully remain
We licence your departure with your son.
Mine eyes, even sociable to the show of thine,
Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
to thee. My revenge is now at Milford: would I had
I warrant him consul.
Mistress Ford; come, Mistress Ford,--
Let me have judgment and the Jew his will.
And thou art but of low degree:
In private brabble did we apprehend him.
Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be ruled by me;
And all my armour laid into my tent?
There, when my maiden priests are met together,
Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.
Should be! should--buzz!
She is alone.
How now, my lord! you desire to know
Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so.
Lucius hath wrote already to the emperor
He and Lepidus are at Caesar's house.
And Edward, my poor son, at Tewksbury.
To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel:
I am good friends with my father and may do any thing.
I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
Yet I do find it so; for to be plain,
If there be more, more woeful, hold it in;
My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
Enter LADY MACBETH, with a taper
I beseech your grace, let this letter be read:
Repeat your will and take it.
wringing her hands, and all our house in a great
Even as my life, or blood that fosters it.
By all the everlasting gods, I'll go!
You are sent for to the senate:
Conceives by idleness and nothing teems
To say so to my husband.
Till he hath pass'd necessity.
And let the stinking elder, grief, untwine
Arise, dissembler: though I wish thy death,
Gold strew'd i' the floor. Here's money for my meat:
Their dearest action in the tented field,
If it might please you, to enforce no further
You have right well conceited. Let us go,
Will much impeach the justice of his state;
Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day:
women; he was not inclined that way.
That carries anger as the flint bears fire;
Why do you stir so early?
If both were open'd.
This shouldering of each other in the court,
a whole bookful of these quondam carpet-mangers,
Prithee, come; will you?
melancholy man.
The tidings come that they are all arrived.
SCENE IV. Plains between Troy and the Grecian camp.
Against the use of nature? Present fears
clothes; but I am now, sir, muddied in fortune's
dragon's tail; and my nativity was under Ursa
SCENE II. The same. The council-chamber.
Enter Pyramus and Thisbe, Wall, Moonshine, and Lion
There's scarce a bush.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
And madly play with my forefather's joints?
There is an art which in their piedness shares
That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he--
out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.
things go.
To hear me speak the message I am sent on.
I thank your honour. For my part, my lord,
Wherein the king stands generally condemn'd.
And, lo, the happiness! go, and importune her.
Bring forth that sorceress condemn'd to burn.
the Goodwins, I think they call the place; a very
This same should be the voice of Friar John.
You know to-morrow is the wedding-day.
I am content; so the maiden cities you talk of may
Peace, I say.
Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou darest.
And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.
'Silvia, this night I will enfranchise thee.'
And let him learn to know, when maidens sue,
How you can frown than spend a fawn upon 'em,
So tediously away. The poor condemned English,
O me! my uncle's spirit is in these stones:
The next thing then she waking looks upon,
O, rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose:
Either this is the envy in you, folly, or mistaking:
All happiness unto my lord the king!
Enter Murderers
Improper for a slave.
He was indeed the duke; out o' the substitution
To bear a poison, I would temper it;
I take to-day a wife, and my election
Most audible, even from his proper tongue,
Did that they did in envy of great Caesar;
Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands;
Eats and drinks
of honour; so belike is that.
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
Traitor!
Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
Set this device against Malvolio here,
Exeunt
The ministers for the purpose hurried thence
With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living
Wishing it so much blood unto your life.
As wretches have o'ernight
apparel fits your thief.
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
Do, and be witness to 't.
Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you.
Then let the ladies tattle what they please.
My foolish rival, that her father likes
Very necessity of this thought, that I,
Makes my past miseries sports: you shall do well,
And kill the innocent gazer with thy sight;
If fortune be not ours to-day, it is
And yet no matter: why should we go in?
I thank thee, Clifford: say, what news with thee?
fable: some certain special honours it pleaseth his
But I am truest speaker you call'd me brother,
And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
For the rain it raineth every day.
To soften Angelo: and that's my pith of business
In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
Of all opinion that grows rank in them
As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
In happy time, Iago.
they should have any allegiance in them, being
For the rain,  and c.
gravelled for lack of matter, you might take
But till that time
A gentleman of noble parentage,
requests to thy friend.
I'll never pause again, never stand still,
Master Barnardine! you must rise and be hanged.
there live we as merry as the day is long.
Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
under her horse; thou shouldst have heard in how
Is most divinely vow'd upon the right
Look, how thou dream'st! I say again, give out
Sir, a whole history.
Even here I will put off my hope and keep it
I shall pay dear.
indeed, he has no pace, but runs where he will.
Let have needful, but not lavish, means;
As are those dulcet sounds in break of day
So, come, help: well struck! there was blow for blow.
And was at last out-faced by Bolingbroke?
My name is Edgar, and thy father's son.
appeles de fingres; oui, de fingres.
that I may proceed in my speech.
When heaven doth weep, doth not the earth o'erflow?
With rocks unscalable and roaring waters,
Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
Have used to conquer, standing on the earth,
Ay, here's a deer whose skin's a keeper's fee:
Not letting it decline on the declined,
As guilty of Duke Humphrey's timeless death.
And show'd thee all the qualities o' the isle,
No; I will to Ireland to his majesty.
recompense this long stay: feast your ears with the
Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors:
Enter MARDIAN
The Duke of Suffolk, William de la Pole.
A light condition in a beauty dark.
Ay, my good lord.
Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall,
Where is the enemy? are you lords o' the field?
Oppose thy steadfast-gazing eyes to mine,
ANTIPHOLUS
'Tis that he sent me of the duke's return:
Well, but what's o'clock?
This is too heavy, let me see another.
cushion, or to be entombed in an ass's pack-
As fair as day.
him but I am heart-burned an hour after.
And see how one another lends content
Why dost thou stay?
There is an aunchient lieutenant there at the
Guide thou the sword.
Life perfect honour.
Exit LAUNCE
Prithee, speak:
He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;
In a most weak--
Pour'st in the open ulcer of my heart
Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
DON
That he believes himself: so do not I.
Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord;
Enter POMPEY
Is all afraid to govern thee near him;
Like to the earth swallow her own increase.
O, that record is lively in my soul!
What lawful quest have given their verdict up
Gentlewoman, good day! I pray you, be my mean
Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help;
This, in the name of God, I promise here:
If my observation, which very seldom lies,
remember thy courtesy; I beseech thee, apparel thy
What is the course and drift of your compact?
hard as steel.
And I did give't my husband.
Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound
Soft! who comes here?
[Kneeling]  O my good master!
Thou'rt a tall fellow: hold thee that to drink.
SCENE I. Friar Laurence's cell.
Arise, I say.
Go hie thee presently, post to the road:
See how I am bewitch'd; behold mine arm
Exeunt
himself in Thames up to the neck; and so I would he
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
Embracing him
The money that you owe me for the chain.
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
Unless it be by inspiration.
Take time to pause; and, by the nest new moon--
Let moulten coin be thy damnation,
where it is.
I think so too; for never gazed the moon
Arm you against your other enemies,
Follow me, then.
We must not rend our subjects from our laws,
Few love to hear the sins they love to act;
And, to begin, wench,--so God help me, la!--
SCENE IV. The Forest of Arden.
Hubert, the utterance of a brace of tongues
Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.
fire, or shall I complain on thee to our mistress,
I'll take thy word for faith, not ask thine oath:
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
Pisanio might have kill'd thee at the heart,
read you; and let us to our work.
Now, mother, what's the matter?
What is thy news then?
Your actions are my dreams;
Slice, I say! pauca, pauca: slice! that's my humour.
That day he overcame the Nervii:
The more thou damm'st it up, the more it burns.
I did, my lord;
Where is the villain, Edmund?
The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
Therefore delay not, give thy hand to Warwick;
How lies their battle? know you on which side
For your great seats now quit you of great shames.
So wilfully dost spurn; and force perforce
again. The king is coming.
It does, my lord.
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
To you that choked it. Let be call'd before us
I can say little more than I have studied, and that
Exit
And will at last break out into a flame:
My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
You are amazed, my liege, at her exclaim:
Ingrateful fox! 'tis he.
Who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves!
Now, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
Hath virgin'd it e'er since. You gods! I prate,
Her chamber is aloft, far from the ground,
Of my lord's health, of his content, yet not
For thy sweet mistress' sake, because thou lovest her.
Well, I will smite his noddles. Pray you, follow.
And all the pleasures you usurp are mine.
I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
The pap of Pyramus;
I pray you, upon what?
But after many ceremonies done,
friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.
her upon the form, and taken following her into the
How shall we part with them in setting forth?
house, and lands, and wife and all, from me.
O cousin, cousin!
fools in hand?
Perish the man whose mind is backward now!
On sweetest flowers, yet they poison breed.
Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!
That he would wed me, or else die my lover.
O, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
Enter a Messenger that meets YORK. Enter YORK with trumpet and many Soldiers
The hateful commons will perform for us,
Rosalind: if I could meet that fancy-monger I would
Cardinal Campeius is arrived, and lately;
Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp,
Fie, fie, fie!
'Tis all engaged, some forfeited and gone;
Now they are clapper-clawing one another; I'll go
Guard it, I pray thee, with a lurking adder
I must not yield to any rites of love,
Have made you finish.
I pray you, go with me.
Thou wast installed in that high degree.
Will not endure his yoke; and for ourself
park; and I will teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest
You will break out.
Is he here, say you? 'tis more than I know, I'll
No father his son dearer: truth to tell thee,
That hath a mint of phrases in his brain;
It hath already publicly been read,
Good uncle, let this end where it begun;
I'll tell you, Sir Lucentio: when the priest
Think not I flatter, for I swear I do not--
The fellow has a deal of that too much,
Speak loudly for him.
She will not fail, for lovers break not hours,
Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light
Sirs, take away the duke, and guard him sure.
How like a deer, strucken by many princes,
I may have liberty to venge this wrong;
Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and
Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
Not unconsider'd leave your honour, nor
Hath lost me in your liking.
crowns neither. Holla, Dennis!
I cannot be bated one doit of a thousand pieces.
Rather than die at once!--taught me to shift
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed
Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
And to this purpose speak. Kings, princes, lords!
and many other evidences proclaim her with all
I should have begg'd I might have been employ'd.
You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
A hundred times and oftener, in my sleep,
First, it was usual with him, every day
Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
I'll utter what my sorrows give me leave.
DON
Away, my Thetis!
And half our sailors swallow'd in the flood?
The reformation of our travell'd gallants,
Sir John Falstaff.
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
I have been studying how I may compare
Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision,
Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior,
And shakes his threatening sword
Sans witchcraft could not.
A fever in your blood! why, then incision
Come your ways; follow me.
beast! O strange! Every inordinate cup is
In high-born words the worth of many a knight
Exeunt
O, pardon me, my lord; it oft falls out,
Shake quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,
Until the elder sister first be wed:
And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy:
a quarrel, but nothing wherefore. O God, that men
Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
But where is he?
And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus;
Concerning the French journey: I replied,
So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
at me; for it was so dark, Hal, that thou couldst
Most worthy madam,
That durst disperse it.
Enter CASSIO and some Musicians
Under a compelling occasion, let women die; it were
I understand you not, my lord.
Is that my prize? are my deserts no better?
She could have run and waddled all about;
In brief, we are the king of England's subjects:
mercy, friend; go you with me, and I will use your
I prithee, put them off.
A knave teach me my duty!
Had his necessity made use of me,
One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom
are so reasonable, for there is not one among them
Of broached mischief to the unborn times?
If she pertain to life let her speak too.
Evades them, with a bombast circumstance
I will report, so please you: these her women
Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,
My honour would not let ingratitude
Fie, fie upon her!
Cousin of Buckingham, though Humphrey's pride
I will survey the inscriptions back again.
Now will I to the Goths, and raise a power,
Alcibiades banished!
Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.
Who kill'd this prince?
Let me unseal the letter.
And die, ere men can say, God save the queen!
gentlemen: they speak English?
Nor hear I from my mistress who did promise
Believe me, lords, my tender years can tell
Most admirable: I have seen those wars.
It is myself I mean: in whom I know
He parted frowning from me, as if ruin
It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place,
Have we pass'd through, not without much content
And wide unclasp the tables of their thoughts
Thus thrust disorderly into my hands,
to utter it.
The honour is sacred which he talks on now,
What's the matter, sir?
I should knock you here, sir?
Are you content to stay?
The clouds methought would open and show riches
A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace,
Enter some, bringing forward the Clerk of Chatham
Golden lads and girls all must,
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction:
Some bastards too.
And stir them up against a mightier task.
How the devil Luxury, with his fat rump and
Faith, unless you play the honest Troyan, the poor
In God's name, what art thou?
But are you not ashamed? nay, are you not,
But, hark, I hear the footing of a man.
Cursed be I that did so! All the charms
Boult, take her away; use her at thy pleasure:
Why, fear not, man; I will not forfeit it:
under that title because I am merry. Yea, but so I
O, that thou wouldst as well afford a grave
another man is a fool when he dedicates his
Is this true, Pistol?
Entreat her not the worse in that I pray
I will preserve myself: and am bethought
To cure this deadly grief.
I was; but I do find more pain in banishment
one of these days.
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
I ever bore my daughter or thyself.
Enter DENNY
Shall yield them little, tell the constable.
For this new-married man approaching here,
Unless she said ' My mind is now turn'd whore.'
lately came from the king, commands the contrary.
The bodies of GONERIL and REGAN are brought in
I would your duty were as foolish too:
So.
Or as tie heresies that men do leave
Must not in haste abuse--if it be true,
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
That is Laertes,
to thirteen, this spirit walks in.
And the mountain tops that freeze,
What's that to the purpose?
I'll do my best
Banished, sir.
Pardon this fault, and by my soul I swear
From my remembrance. And, besides, the king
Repent what you have spoke.
I have a roisting challenge sent amongst
And that most venerable man which I
What noise is this?
But music for the time doth change his nature.
I thank your grace.
I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
My head should be struck off.
They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
And we in them no hope to win the day;
Though Rome be therefore angry: Mulmutius made our laws,
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
If we be conquer'd, let men conquer us,
I have no hope
No longer than we well could wash our hands
You that survive, and you that sleep in fame!
And, in conclusion,
you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh.
And but in purged judgment trusting neither?
Roderigo, if thou hast that in thee indeed, which I
I would your grace
And thou hast given me most bitter terms.
I will desist;
The manner of his speech; for't cannot be
My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
Sovereign to all the creatures on the earth.
says 'Launcelot, budge not.' 'Budge,' says the
Here they're but felt, and seen with mischief's eyes,
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
directly to say 'I love you:' then if you urge me
DON
But this my masculine usurp'd attire,
It wears, sir, as it grows.
Of being taken by the insolent foe
Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
Which he not dreams of.
Which being but the shadow of your son,
O my liege,
With Demetrius.
Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base?
For many of our princes--woe the while!--
Come hither, neighbour Seacole. God hath blessed
Our Jovial star reign'd at his birth, and in
Speak, good Master Brook: I shall be glad to be
Shall pass between us: ere long you are like to hear,
To make great haste. All fast? what means this? Ho!
No Valentine, indeed, for sacred Silvia.
To my heart's hope! Gold; silver; and base lead.
itself: but I will acquaint my daughter withal,
Even to the note o' the king, or I'll fall in them.
Not unlike, sir, that may be.
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
which cannot choose but branch now. Since their
How happily he lives, how well beloved
God save the foundation!
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
Retreat: excursions. JOAN LA PUCELLE, ALENCON, and CHARLES fly
As Dian's visage, is now begrimed and black
I fear 'twill be revenged:
More pregnantly than words. Yet you do well
What, doth my Lord of Suffolk comfort me?
Enter a Messenger
virtue to practise his judgment with the disposition
By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st,
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
Welcome, my lord: what, will our mother come?
What is my ransom, master? let me know.
as truly as a man of falsehood may.
Harp on it still shall I till heart-strings break.
And make her full of hateful fantasies.
To ransack Troy, within whose strong immures
Those mothers who, to nousle up their babes,
When you are by at night. I do beseech you--
Madam, 'tis true; and were't not madness, then,
We must be neat; not neat, but cleanly, captain:
He fumbles up into a lose adieu,
be not too rough for some that know little but
Yes;
It cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp
In cunning I must draw my sword upon you
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
I know not. If they speak but truth of her,
Come, quench your blushes and present yourself
My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, and
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
So do I his.
I should be as merry as the day is long;
Why, this is to have a name in great men's
How now! how now!
Go see my lord aboard: for this time leave me.
Prizes not quantity of dirty lands;
elbow, de nick, de sin, de foot, de coun.
Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
And follow me, that will to some provision
A third is fled, that had a hand in it.
Or else what lets it but he would be here?
What is it
Hark how I'll bribe you: good my lord, turn back.
I know she is not, for this match made up
O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
carriage; and, as I think, his age some fifty, or,
If every of your wishes had a womb.
But to be rough, unswayable and free.
Let's follow, Gertrude:
glover's paring-knife?
O bon Dieu! les langues des hommes sont pleines de
This touches me in reputation.
We must not now displease him.
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and RIVERS
He gave me a jewel th' other day, and now he has
breaking out.
Enter the Earls of SOMERSET, SUFFOLK, and WARWICK; RICHARD PLANTAGENET, VERNON, and another Lawyer
See, they have shut him in.
The article of my oath.
They fight: DOUGLAS flies
Than to make up a free determination
'Faith, some certain dregs of conscience are yet
'Tis like a chime a-mending; with terms unsquared,
To see me pay his debt, and then I care not!
it never be day? I will trot to-morrow a mile, and
Hath homely age the alluring beauty took
Labouring for destiny make cruel way
She's far enough; and what he learns by this
Sir, I do invite you too; you shall not
But to those men that sought him sweet as summer.
Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
He is.
To come to Padua. Know you not the cause?
Hath pawn'd the Sicils and Jerusalem,
Exeunt
Enter DUKE OF YORK attended
And death's dishonourable victory
Sweet king! the bishop hath a kindly gird.
Could not be wedged in more: I am stifled
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
In London streets, that coronation-day,
SCENE I. Padua. A public place.
Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
Sir, I will serve him; for I do find your hangman is
This petty brabble will undo us all.
Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
me.
Thanks, gentle duke. But where is Pucelle now?
But, tell me, is young George Stanley living?
The honour'd gashes whole.
Come, I'll go see this Italian: what I have lost
My lord?
ostler bring my gelding out of the stable. Farewell,
fool, and a coward, as you then reported him to be?
And, madam,
After my speech is ended.
house the hour she appointed me.
I mean, thy general.
At thy good heart's oppression.
That I repair to Rome, I am content.
Tooth that poisons if it bite;
All three of them are desperate: their great guilt,
I do perceive't: there's nothing in her yet:
Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet and
My hope is gone, now Suffolk is deceased.
My services which I have done the signiory
But omne bene, say I; being of an old father's mind,
He hath paid you all he promised you; may be, he has
And what hath mass or matter, by itself
Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
Till fortune, tired with doing bad,
Is he well shipp'd?
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
The George, profaned, hath lost his holy honour;
That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
Why they are so, but, like to village-curs,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
you farewell.
Send her another; never give her o'er;
Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars.
BISHOP
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
Not a whit, Touchstone: those that are good manners
To brag unto them, thus I did, and thus;
Are you not good?
Was carried with more speed before the wind;
Is he disposed to mirth? I hope he is.
Even from Hyperion's rising in the east
Take thy commission.
Not to a rage: patience and sorrow strove
Untimely smother'd in their dusky graves.
Whoever knocks!
Your grace shall understand that at the receipt of
But when I meet you arm'd, as black defiance
By underhand corrupted foul injustice,
The troop is past. Come, pilgrim, I will bring you
Immortal longings in me: now no more
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
And my heart too.
I am sorry that by hanging thee I can
The many to them longing, have put off
Why she dares not come over to thee.
Princes have but their tides for their glories,
for yours.
That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
My love shall hear the music of my hounds.
shall be any further afflicted, we two will still be
French part of such a boy; and for my English moiety
midnight is to be up betimes; and 'diluculo
since the death of Hermione, visited that removed
Will catch at us, like strumpets; and scald rhymers
Dismiss my soldiers, or capitulate
Right.
A good lenten answer: I can tell thee where that
And Valentine I'll hold an enemy,
The pride of Suffolk and the cardinal,
wounds upon him.
Through casements darted their desiring eyes
The secret mischiefs that I set abroach
As levels with her breeding.
The yearly course that brings this day about
And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,
His ring I do accept most thankfully:
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
For, my good liege, she is so idly king'd,
this dream: it shall be called Bottom's Dream,
And that the Earl of Surrey, with the rod.
So that, by this, you would not have him die.
Where is it! taken from us it is: a hundred upon
Eight wild-boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and
Good my lord cardinal, I have half a dozen healths
When others sleep upon their quiet beds,
I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel:
To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
For their fell faults our brothers were beheaded;
Exit
thou dost him any slight disgrace or if he do not
I will hear that play;
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
Labouring to save his life, and would not rather
Ah, none but in this iron age would do it!
Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.
Thou troublest me; am not in the vein.
to my shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my
With gazing fed; and fancy dies
Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
Hav e wander'd with our traversed arms and breathed
Of one entire and Perfect chrysolite,
suddenly call you, come forth, and without any pause
Nor thou altogether a wise man: as much foolery as
In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no
But in the mean time he wants less, my lord.
Though Paris came in hope to speed alone.
Yon king's to me like to my father's picture,
Must by us both be spent most preciously.
with no eyes. Look with thine ears: see how yond
No, I will not, for it boots thee not.
are no husband for her.
What will Biron say when that he shall hear
He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
What love, think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
Is he not here?
And, look, how many Grecian tents do stand
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
It is so: and you may, some of you, thank love for
And, like a strutting player, whose conceit
king's company.
Cupid is no longer an archer: hi s glory shall be
Thou know'st I have power
Ready.
To be, or not to be: that is the question:
Good things of day begin to droop and drowse;
O heavens themselves!
world no injury, for in it I have nothing; only in
Go to, we pardon thee: therefore, in brief,
And that's far worse than none; better have none
I hope I shall have leisure to make good;
They bid us to the English dancing-schools,
upstairs and downstairs; his eloquence the parcel of
Lo, as the bark, that hath discharged her fraught,
O sun,
This milky gentleness and course of yours
and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
That her wide walls encompass'd but one man?
Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would;
thou love such a woman? What, to make thee an
Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
One twelve moons more she'll wear Diana's livery;
say 'There were wit in this head, an 'twould out;'
Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself,
My scutcheon plain declares that I am Alisander,--
Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode;
Or to her death, according to our law
In conflict that you get the sun of them.
have lost?
Be not dismay'd, for succor is at hand:
The fifth, an hand environed with clouds,
Not worshipp'd with a waxen epitaph.
Well, uncle, what folly I commit, I dedicate to you.
Commend the paper to his gracious hand,
All that I have to say, is, to tell you that the
Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala:
was a sailor.
Offence of mighty note; but to himself
their courage
The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches
He; I know him.
And will not let belief take hold of him
The Goths have gather'd head; and with a power
You bid them rise, and live.
Hark, wretches! how I mean to martyr you.
Pour down thy weather: how goes all in France?
Then thou, fair sun, which on my earth dost shine,
Isidore's Servant	A plague upon him, dog!
Let's talk of graves, of worms, and epitaphs;
Who, hearing of your melancholy state,
No; if I mistake
What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
By its own visage: if I then deny it,
What may be sworn by, both divine and human,
And this ditty, after me,
detects him: 'tis a blushing shamefast spirit that
To make a second fall of cursed man?
Will you shog off? I would have you solus.
Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse
Low march within
thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she
Not to seem senseless of the bob: if not,
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR and his train
We are your guest to-night.
What ceremony else?
Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too,
follows not thee: therefore thou art a sheep.
No longer stay.
I humbly beseech you, proceed to the affairs of state.
To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
For them all together; which maintained so politic
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
the letter, for the nomination of the party writing
Since therein she doth evitate and shun
And thus most humbly I do take my leave.
Sister, you'll go with us?
Of rare and proved effects, such as his reading
May reasonably die and never rise
Which craves the instant use.
Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
A' has a little gall'd me, I confess;
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
When I am alone, why, then I am Tranio;
Ho! who's here?
Do you hear, sir?
DON
Of youth upon him; from which the world should note
I am a most poor woman, and a stranger,
Faith, not me.
Else one self mate and mate could not beget
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
I? I care not an she were a black-a-moor; 'tis all one to me.
Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.
This is the palace of the fearful king,
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
Give him deserved vexation. Let a guard
executioner, who in his office lacks a helper: if
But what talk we of fathers, when there is such a
Shower'd on me daily, have been more than could
Knocking within
[Kneeling]  No man shed tears for noble Mutius;
They'll say 'tis naught: others, to hear the city
Give me thy hand, Kate: I will unto Venice,
How much an ill word may empoison liking.
This shower, blown up by tempest of the soul,
Or any kind of light,
Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer;
Mine innocent child?
And am not I a prelate of the church?
With those legions
Thanks, provost, for thy care and secrecy:
Follow us to the court. Thou churl, for this time,
I' faith, I thank him; he hath bid me to a calf's
What dost thou think?
the Bunch of Grapes, where indeed you have a delight
By this white beard, I'ld fight with thee to-morrow.
To leave a rich Jew's service, to become
Enter CATESBY
He, more incensed against your majesty
What comfortable hour canst thou name,
Great lords, from Ireland am I come amain,
Enter ACHILLES and Myrmidons
Holla! Bernardo!
As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
The villain is alive in Titus' house,
No, Cassio is not kill'd.
For ever the society of men.
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
What a pestilent knave is this same!
Pucelle hath bravely play'd her part in this,
Although before the solemn priest I have sworn,
See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
For who love I so much? And now who knows
Yonder comes the troop.
Thou dost thy office fairly. Turn thee back.
O worthy prince, dishonour not your eye
Second 'Prentice	Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master: fight
one.
But kings and mightiest potentates must die,
Blow, blow, thou winter wind.
Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply.
In our sustaining corn. A century send forth;
[Aside]  He takes her by the palm: ay, well said,
Great Juno, comes; I know her by her gait.
O Priam, yield not to him!
Master, let me take you a buttonhole lower. Do you
You shall outlive the lady whom you serve.
When Julius Caesar, whose remembrance yet
Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
He that has the two fair daughters: is't he you mean?
A prize, a prize, a prize!
That, through the sight I bear in things to love,
With divers deaths in death.
Enter LAERTES, armed; Danes following
And did you see the handkerchief?
And I will go and purse the ducats straight,
Will I lend ear to. Ha! what shout is this?
so the third. Yonder they lie; the poor old man,
First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people.
Such as seafaring men provide for storms;
Come hither, Mistress Ford; Mistress Ford the honest
A queen, and daughter to a king, inter me.
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat;
Have found him guilty of high treason. Much
That I wish well. 'Tis pity--
Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend
Thou art no friend to God or to the king:
Doth she not think me an old murderer,
That wound, beyond their feeling, to the quick.
Had been alive this hour,
That look into me with considerate eyes:
And make this marriage to be solemnized.
I beseech you, do.
He will be found a dangerous protector.
ANTIPHOLUS
Born so, master.
Come, Friar Francis, be brief; only to the plain
A good blunt fellow. Why, being younger born,
His fits, his frenzy, and his bitterness?
Were better than a churlish turf of France.
No more; the text is foolish.
As true as I believe you think them false
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
Alas, sir, I am but a poor petitioner of our whole township.
With triumphs, mirth and rare solemnity.
Soldier, you must come to the king.
As if a god, in hate of mankind, had
Will this work?
Give order to my servants that they take
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
Exeunt
Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
A long flourish till they come down
Now, sir, who's a cuckold now? Master Brook,
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
What fashion, madam shall I make your breeches?
Such harmony is in immortal souls;
For he's inclined as is the ravenous wolf.
Longs after for the garbage.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  And so, my lord protector,
The love of wicked men converts to fear;
And all goes worse than I have power to tell.
His man with scissors nicks him like a fool,
His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
And will for evermore be true to it.
At ample point all that I did possess,
Who are the rest?
'Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do good deeds on't.
That angels love good men with; even of her
Who, my master?
raves in saying nothing.
Lie further off; in human modesty,
The common muck of the world: he covets less
I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.
In Alexandria: here's the manner of 't:
'Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir; which, in my
In peace and honour live Lord Titus long;
mightily grace himself on thee, he will practise
And lie pavilion'd in the fields of France.
Enter PANTHINO
Than Rhodope's or Memphis' ever was:
Of what your reverence shall incite us to.
Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril
Thou most lying slave,
Creatures may be alike: were 't he, I am sure
Let us, that are poor petitioners, speak too:
And none of them been worn; and, for a name,
What say you to't?
A gracious person: but yet I cannot love him;
pageant there is presented no monster.
greedy intention, that the appetite of her eye did
Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not,
O, for a stone-bow, to hit him in the eye!
disasters the sun, the moon, and the stars: as
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
Speak to me:
Made me to fan you thus, but the gods made you,
And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,
Bastards, and else.
And am so near the lack of charity--
I greet thy love,
Till we have done at sea. Do not exceed
Was he not companion with the riotous knights
It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in
Good morrow, kind Sir Eglamour.
And take our goodly aged men by the beards,
Enter a Knight; he passes over, and his Squire presents his shield to the Princess
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
More than with ruthless waves, with sands and rocks.
I dare not stand by; nor shall you be safer
towards you: I have told you what I have seen
That they may have their wages duly paid 'em,
I would he had continued to his country
And make him, naked, foil a man at arms.
Before you fight the battle, ope this letter.
No, cousin, I'll to Fife.
Thou ever young, fresh, loved and delicate wooer,
Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!
You, Roderigo! come, sir, I am for you.
To MOTH
To pray for this good man and for his issue,
Gallants, I am not as I have been.
Our purpose necessary and not envious:
The motto thus, 'Sic spectanda fides.'
Into a madman's rags; to assume a semblance
Exit
Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him,
Do glue themselves in sociable grief,
Not to eat honey like a drone
The consequence o' the crown, and must not soil
That done, repair to Pompey's theatre.
What power the Duke of York had levied there;
Exit
Of virtue was she; yea, and she herself.
Do it not with poison, strangle her in her bed, even
Why, therefore fire; for I have caught extreme cold.
To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire:
kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red
staring on one another, to tear the cases of their
Had not concluded all. He wakes; speak to him.
That they have caught the king: and who knows yet
Nature should be so conversant with pain,
And I a maid at your window,
Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR
Believe me, sister, of all the men alive
The matter's in my head and in my heart:
And tell them both the circumstance of all;
Keeps place with thought and almost, like the gods,
So good, so noble and so true a master?
And I am I, howe'er I was begot.
I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
fowl or a hurt wild-duck. I pressed me none but such
The meat it feeds on; that cuckold lives in bliss
Much upon this it is: and might not you
This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;
and say 'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all
[Reads]  'that shallow vassal,'--
So stumblest on my counsel?
And with you take the chain and bid my wife
Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree: I
No more yielding but a dream,
In vaults and prisons, and to thrill and shake
Tread not upon him. Masters all, be quiet;
man as other men are;' and there indeed let him name
Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town:
What is the remedy?
Lay hands on the villain: I believe a' means to
will you dismiss the people?
Most honour'd Cleon, I must needs be gone;
Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
'Tis false.
The handkerchief!
In her consists my happiness and thine;
To me or my swift passage, that I slide
Come, come, our empress, with her sacred wit
I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
Upon the like devotion as yourselves,
'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs;
But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber.
How got they in, and be hang'd?
[Aside]  Wormwood, wormwood.
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and MENENIUS
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Pindarus,
Exit
Come Caesar to the Capitol to-morrow?
Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,
I saw't i' the orchard.
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
For in the book of Numbers is it writ,
His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine.
I had as lief not be as live to be
They kill us for their sport.
Lucilius' Servant	Five thousand mine.
be patient; there is no fettering of authority.
Enter a Shepherd
shall anon over-read it at your pleasure; where you
And poison it in the source; and the first stone
'Tis not possible.
Your will?
Till they had stol'n our jewel. All's but naught;
The strangeness of his alter'd countenance?
Be now produced and heard.
As I have said you did.
Where there is beauty; truth, where semblance; love,
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
wait on her: so the maid that stood in the way for
I gave him gentle looks, thereby to find
Giving a favour
O noble weakness!
That follow'd me so near,--O, our lives' sweetness!
The forest walks are wide and spacious;
broiled and eaten him too.
I will talk further with you.
Jack Cade proclaims himself Lord Mortimer,
And am I guerdon'd at the last with shame?
O, my dear lord, lo, where your son is borne!
Our contract celebrated.
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
without 'em?
That magical word of war, we have effected;
at the next turning of all, on your left; marry, at
So easily open?
Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest
Troilus, thou coward Troilus, show thy head!
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
But Saturnine? Full well, Andronicus,
Nor dignifies an impure thought with breath;
SCENE III. Before OLIVER'S house.
Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me,
Than I of yours;
How long hath she been thus?
That's seal'd in approbation? You, Lord Escalus,
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
A long-tongued babbling gossip? no, lords, no:
Upon what sickness?
Half stints their strife before their strokes begin.
That this may be some error, but no madness,
And what said the gallant?
This Caesar was a tyrant.
Succeeds in unknown fate.
Exit
So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome;
That is the very defect of the matter, sir.
Without my stir.
'Tis the next way to turn tailor, or be red-breast
You have heard me say, when I did fly from Tyre,
England did never owe so sweet a hope,
Recount, I do beseech thee: come, sit by me.
They break their faith to God as well as us:
cried 'budget,' as Anne and I had appointed; and yet
hath had three suits to his back, six shirts to his
Breasting the lofty surge: O, do but think
Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need:
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
More than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue
Then why should he despair that knows to court it
If by your art, my dearest father, you have
I shall be pinch'd to death.
What is the matter?
And urged it twice together, did he not?
Make it your cause; send down, and take my part!
Last time, I danced attendance on his will
Why, all our ranks are broke.
ground of your fair mistress, make her go back, even
To greet a man not worth her pains, much less
And such high vaunts of his nobility,
What, urge you your petitions in the street?
Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in:
I doubt not but to ride as fast as York:
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word
My meaning in't, I protest, was very honest in the
Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
And prostitute me to the basest groom
Were not you even now with the Countess Olivia?
Lest it should ravel and be good to none,
Hold thy desperate hand:
his head, and bring them both upon two poles hither.
He brings you figs.
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
Whence camest thou, worthy thane?
As he is proud to do't.
company light upon thee! I will fear to catch it
To THYREUS
I cannot name the disease; and it is caught
Enter TAMORA
'To Julia.' Say, from whom?
rich by the fairies. This is some changeling:
Ventidius lately
As asses are.
Of the right casket, never in my life
You perceive my mind?
Ha!
I'll kiss each several paper for amends.
Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
Charges she more than me?
What doth she say, my Lord of Buckingham?
Ay, amen!
Up in the air, crown'd with the golden sun,
'Faith, my lord. I spoke it but according to the
It is no matter if the tied were lost; for it is the
My Lord of Gloucester, in those busy days
love thy husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy
Thou stool for a witch!
And if your grace mark every circumstance,
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
After your thoughts, straight back again to France.
therefore you must needs play Pyramus.
Aside
He couples it to his complaining names.
Lie drown'd and soak'd in mercenary blood;
Applying another asp to her arm
my labour; if she be otherwise, 'tis labour well bestowed.
That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.
And found the blessedness of being little:
As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war:
Fame answering the most strange inquire,
What tongueless blocks were they! would not they speak?
And tells me 'tis a thing impossible
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
ACT V
Or what is he of basest function
When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman
It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor.
That now hath seized them; why, they were no worse
Which you knew great, and to the hazard
They hail'd him father to a line of kings:
Methinks the ground is even.
I am not mad, Sir Topas: I say to you, this house is dark.
though I could not with such estimable wonder
Are less than horrible imaginings:
Come, we'll have him in a dark room and bound. My
Are lank and lean with thy extortions.
embattled against me. What say you to't, Sir John?
Now 'gins to bite the spirits. I do beseech you
Madam, he's well.
Which after hours give leisure to repent.
The trial just and noble. All the clerks,
First, let her show her face, and after speak.
Tarry a little; there is something else.
I must not look to have; but, in their stead,
Commend me to my brother: soon at night
From whom?
Till now some nine moons wasted, they have used
Up and down, up and down,
Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief;
Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast:
The bastard brains with these my proper hands
videlicit, in a love-cause. Troilus had his brains
And you that be the king's friends, follow me.
O wither'd truth!
Till he had forged himself a name o' the fire
You're welcome. What's your will? Give us leave, drawer.
Winter's not gone yet, if the wild-geese fly that way.
Peace, and be still!
this be duly performed; with a thought that more
Who, with best meaning, have incurr'd the worst.
Will yield to see his daughter.
At which appear'd against him his surveyor;
With these weak women's fears: a noble spirit,
With any branch or image of thy state;
some, of beguiling virgins with the broken seals of
We are coming thither: gracious England hath
Enter GOWER
As willingly as one would kill a fly,
This body, like to them, to what I must;
Be lion-mettled, proud; and take no care
Sir, there is a fray to be fought between Sir Hugh
Threaten the threatener and outface the brow
O melancholy!
God save your grace! I do beseech your majesty,
destruction. For these my present friends, as they
Hum! go to thy cold bed, and warm thee.
O Cymbeline! heaven and my conscience knows
As make the angels weep; who, with our spleens,
And princely care foreseeing those fell mischiefs
And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
I will speak lower.
The gunner and his mate
Come hither, boy: if ever thou shalt love,
Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates
It would allay the burning quality
hare-lip; mildews the white wheat, and hurts the
I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy.
I swear to you. I think Helen loves him better than Paris.
The sheriff and all the watch are at the door: they
Tradition, form and ceremonious duty,
By three and twenty thousand of the French
I may dispose of him.
Re-enter ARIEL like a water-nymph
in't; and I would I were the first that ever
Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
myself acquainted with you. I shall discover a
As the sweet Troilus. O you gods divine!
A very noble youth: mark.
What is the matter?
nor no penance; but a' must fast three days a week.
Virtue is beauty, but the beauteous evil
The sleepy grooms with blood.
fortune-telling. She works by charms, by spells,
his face, if he be not fellow with the best king,
Shall she live to betray this guilt of ours,
Marry, we'll search.
question's out of my part. Good gentle one, give me
You shall not be admitted to his sight.
And then it lived in sweet Elysium.
Yet in some sort they are better than the tribunes,
Ay; and let none enter, lest I break your pate.
Your praises are too large: but that your youth,
Not I.
It seem'd, appear'd to Rome. By the discovery.
Flow'd with her beauty once: 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,
I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave;
you have courage to maintain it: I am bound to call
'tis a withered pear; it was formerly better;
A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
seven, two, tree hours for him, and he is no come.
Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
And to do that well craves a kind of wit:
Shall upon their children be.
Nay, I hope.
I'll bring her to the Grecian presently:
Which haply by much company might be urged:
Should have gone off.
known to you; and though we have there a substitute
Not I, my lord, unless I did bleed too.
Who then but English Henry will be lord
Have blown this coal betwixt my lord and me;
Lord Timon will be left a naked gull,
O, then his lines would ravish savage ears
'Faith, he to-night hath boarded a land carack:
[Sings]
Past hope, and in despair; that way, past grace.
Which here appeareth due upon the bond.
Pointing to KING LEAR
But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin,
The present power of life, but in short time
I honour him
I never shall endure her: dear my lord,
The very doors and windows savour vilely.
I not desire to know. Follow thy drum;
Now, sir! what make you here?
I would all the world might be cozened; for I have
Your worship had like to have given us one, if you
that, unless a man were cursed, I cannot tell what
Is that the law?
There's no trust,
Well are you fitted, had you but a Moor:
Stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm;
Though you would seek to unsphere the
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky,
What is it ye would see?
And make a dearth in this revolting land.
O Lord, have mercy on us, wretched sinners!
It fell upon a little western flower,
That dare leave two together; fare you well.
may do homage: find me to marry me with Octavius
Only to part friends:
hearts, what ado here is to bring you together!
I am hitherto your daughter: but here's my husband,
So he has.
No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
The treasure of her honour. No more. To what end?
And reason to my love is liable.
Brother Antony,--
From youth of such a season, 'fore noble Lucius
Strike him, Aumerle. Poor boy, thou art amazed.
The better part of my affections would
You shall have aid.
vein of him.
And let the foes quietly cut their throats,
Enter Clown
Was not Gaunt just, and is not Harry true?
Have got by the late voyage is but merely
And let me buy your friendly help thus far,
That sport best pleases that doth least know how:
I'm not their father; yet who this should be,
a part of the thousandth part of a minute in the
You have me, rich; and I will never fail
Papist, howsome'er their hearts are severed in
To rest mistrustful where a noble heart
Could not a worm, an adder, do so much?
I pray you, now receive them.
devil knew not what he did when he made man
To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
Toward the king, my ever royal master,
Giving a letter
Sirrah, no more!
The breath is gone, and the sore eyes see clear:
Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place:
So please your grace, the Prologue is address'd.
Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me and
Full half an hour.
I see you have a month's mind to them.
The loss you have is but a son being king,
And you, monarch!
Enter EDMUND, and CURAN meets him
love keep little company together now-a-days; the
Now, blessing on thee! rise; thou art my child.
[To PAGE]  And this is true; I like not the humour
His answer was 'The worse:' of Gloucester's treachery,
Or will not else thy craft so quickly grow,
In top of all design, my mate in empire,
Come you to make confession to this father?
Or the division of the twentieth part
Creditors? devils!
That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
I am betray'd, by keeping company
The Lord in heaven bless thee, noble Harry!
If holy churchmen take delight in broils?
Our purposed hunting shall be set aside.
To wrong'd Othello's service! Let him command,
all Greece.
That thy adulteries
To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
Cousin, throw up your gage; do you begin.
Dying or ere they sicken.
Than foemen's marks upon his batter'd shield;
Exeunt
That we, like savages, may worship it.
If she should break it now!
she herself, without other advantage, may lawfully
I do not like this news.
And when old time shall lead him to his end,
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
He left a promise to return again
Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak:
Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he
Shall thy good uncle, and thy brother Lucius,
Did famine follow; whom thou fought'st against,
Shall we be sunder'd? shall we part, sweet girl?
The midwife and the nurse well made away,
Come, to this gear. You are a good archer, Marcus;
was full of jests, and gipes, and knaveries, and
To tread down fair respect of sovereignty,
All goodness
We shall be joyful of thy company.
You, in the right of Lady Blanch your wife,
Ambitious York doth level at thy crown,
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
Ten days ago I drown'd these news in tears;
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
She never saw it.
Unto the tranect, to the common ferry
So far from cheer and from your former state,
By forfeiting a traitor and a coward.
Enter BRABANTIO, OTHELLO, IAGO, RODERIGO, and Officers
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
To the ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son:
I conjure you, by that which you profess,
Very well! go to! I cannot go to, man; nor 'tis
I am informed thoroughly of the cause.
prayers. Fare you well, my lord; and believe this
My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger,
They had parted so much honesty among 'em
I cannot truly say how I came here;
I have another suit.
Received a second life; and second father
Friendly together: so through Lud's-town march:
I can go home alone.
To find persistive constancy in men:
Indeed, 'tis true that Henry told me of;
But tie him not to be their bedfellow.
Or if that surly spirit, melancholy,
Say, you chose him
As waters to the sucking of a gulf.
It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
O God, sir, here's a dish I love not: I cannot
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate:
What is the matter
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
will not hurt you. Come on; to't.
Between compulsion and a brave respect!
I should do so in honour: I am in this,
At market-price have bought.
If I hope well, I'll never see thee more.
You may as well do anything most hard,
Give your worship good morrow.
O sir, the loathsomeness of them offends me more
There end thy brave, and turn thy face in peace;
O Proteus, let this habit make thee blush!
No,
Whose tenors and particular effects
the scratching of thee; I would make thee the
Thy broken faith hath made a prey for worms.
I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
May we do so?
To be our regent in these parts of France:
With clamourous demands of date-broke bonds,
Hail, reverend sir! the gods preserve you!
The valiant Duke of Bedford. Come, my lord,
Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!
Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go?
the ort 'dissolutely:' the ort is, according to our
A sea of melting pearl, which some call tears:
She comes to do you good.
Pack'd cards with Caesar, and false-play'd my glory
Because he is protector of the realm,
Myself against the level of mine aim;
And swell so much the higher by their ebb.
The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
But that I know them: do they charge me further?
Madam, with all my heart;
Throwing the body down
It may be, these apparent prodigies,
Through Athens I am thought as fair as she.
When returns Cranmer?
O, I know him well, I, sir; he, sir, 's a good
Bardolph, follow him. A tapster is a good trade:
O God! they did me too much injury
Of old Sir Rowland! why, what make you here?
'Twas one's that loved me better than you will.
The moment is thy death. Away! by Jupiter,
'Tis well that thou hast cause
To whom?
May a man do it?
You have undone a man of fourscore three,
A Bohemian born, but here nursed un and bred; one
Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius;
Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed.
Companion, hence!
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labour
To the sharp'st kind of justice. Please you sir,
Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools:
Now am I like that proud insulting ship
This true which they so seem to fear. Go home,
It is reported, mighty sovereign,
Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?
As that ungentle hull, the cuckoo's bird,
here thou viewest, beholdest, surveyest, or seest;
Why, my horse, my love, my horse.
I have heard
All swoln and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
Have I in conquest stretch'd mine arm so far,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
How canst thou try them so?
O my brave emperor, this is fought indeed!
Thus do all traitors:
We coldly pause for thee; Chatillon, speak.
We'll come to you after hunting.
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
Now does he feel
Take not, good cousin, further than you should.
I know not what; but format in apparel,
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
son's pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man,
With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come,
Exeunt
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
How tastes it? is it bitter? forty pence, no.
How with mine honour may I give him that
she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked
What violent hands can she lay on her life?
Lord worshipped might he be! what a beard hast thou
Re-enter CASSANDRA, with PRIAM
Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
That he consents, if Warwick yield consent;
With twenty popish tricks and ceremonies,
And am I then a man to be beloved?
And, like the haggard, cheque at every feather
Then the liars and swearers are fools,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
Alarum. Excursions. Enter PISTOL, French Soldier, and Boy
When it concerns the fool or coward. On:
This day I'll wear aloft my burgonet,
Reads
one and twenty fifteens, and one shilling to the
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
Let is be so: yet have I left a daughter,
god, that would not extend his might, only where
As dear be to thee as thy father was.
And even but now return'd; I have not yet
That's it; I would have said the very same.
Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part
That hath received an alms! I will not do't,
May it be possible, that foreign hire
Resides not in that man that does not think,--
Exeunt
Yes, my lord. More jewels yet!
How came we ashore?
Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor,
Gloucester, whate'er we like, thou art protector
about him to-day, I can tell them that: and there's
By heaven, thy love is black as ebony.
not to be recovered.
Does now speak to thee, I embrace thy body;
Hark!
gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
of sugar, five pound of currants, rice,--what will
Who spake of brotherhood? who spake of love?
O' horseback, ye cuckoo; but afoot he will not budge a foot.
Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee,
To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know
Drawing her aside
Do curse the grace that with such grace hath bless'd them,
ish nothing done, so Chrish sa' me, la!
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
stay behind
Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
not very well?
And wonder what they were and to what end
To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage,
A landless knight makes thee a landed squire.
Attempts her love: I prithee, noble lord,
Are not thine own so proper as to waste
He'll be hang'd yet,
Contagious fogs; which falling in the land
Do not infest your mind with beating on
In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril!
sole dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's god,
I am a soldier and now bound to France.
While the beast lived, was killed with hunting him.
I'll call for clubs, if you will not away.
And tempt us not to bear above our power!
Admits no orifex for a point as subtle
How now, Pisanio!
You breathe these dead news in as dead an ear.
That this my mother's son was none of his;
miracle. I am eight times thrust through the
And all that love his follies.
Into as many gobbets will I cut it
A whoreson beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!
Come hither from the furrow and be merry:
Do call it valiant fury: but, for certain,
comes, and again; catched it again; or whether his
Enter a Servant
As cause doth minister. Go call at Flavius' house,
But then I saw no harm, and then I heard
That I should yet absent me from your bed:
Runs far before them. Good my sovereign,
And now will I be Edward's champion.
You, minion, are too saucy.
None, but to
My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
Bi-fold authority! where reason can revolt
Where hadst thou it?
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, attended; QUEEN ELIZABETH, PEMBROKE, STAFFORD, HASTINGS, and others
Suffolk, the new-made duke that rules the roast,
This is his tent; and see where stand his guard.
To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress,
Good maid, then.
But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon.
That hath more mind to feed on your blood than live
Exeunt PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, and GRUMIO
So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord,
Fear no more the heat o' the sun,
Here cousin:
reason, we must stay the time.
Half a share.
What would your ladyship?
I will become as liberal as you;
So, there goes our protector in a rage.
For his death we do perceive his guilt:
censure worse than drunkards.
Be you beneath the sky.
I pray thee, let me feel thy cloak upon me.
he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he
If you love her, you cannot see her.
They are as children but one step below,
My spritely brethren, I propend to you
On which I'll toss the flower-de-luce of France.
O vain fool!
the prince be willing; for, indeed, the watch ought
Against an oracle.
Enter JUNO
Room for the incensed Worthies!
Marquess Dorset:
To your proceedings? do not seek to stuff
But, I pray, sir why am I beaten?
And we in negligent danger. Cheer your heart;
strikes him into melancholy; and then there's a
To wit, besides commends and courteous breath,
Ride, ride, Messala: let them all come down.
Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep
you.
aucun prisonnier, neanmoins, pour les ecus que vous
On Holy-rood day, the gallant Hotspur there,
which his wife seems to me well-favored. I will
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
Set on towards London, cousin, is it so?
Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
Are not inherited. Then, dear countryman,
Disdaining me and throwing favours on
He lives in fame that died in virtue's cause.
Force me to keep you as a prisoner,
SCENE II. The same. Another room.
To rive their dangerous artillery
deed of saying is quite out of use. To promise is
I prithee, let's be provided to show them
Go, break among the press, and find a way out
The enemies' drum is heard, and fearful scouring
With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds:
And, by my troth, I think thou lovest me well.
It stands as an edict in destiny:
there I'll sup. Farewell.
Now when the lords and barons of the realm
No, lad; teach me.
The purity and whiteness of my sheets,
Is apprehended for arrival here;
Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it.
We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case
My Desdemona must I leave to thee:
good will to the maid?
Enter MARINA, with a basket of flowers
I would they would forget me, like the virtues
A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
Who on the French ground play'd a tragedy,
Have no more profit of their shining nights
To be corrupted with my worthless gifts.
but that our wits are so diversely coloured: and
The nightingale, if she should sing by day,
Even now I curse the day--and yet, I think,
But pared my present havings, to bestow
That you do love me, I am nothing jealous;
What is become of Marcius?
Send fair-play orders and make compromise,
from thicket;
gyves on; for indeed I had the most of them out of
Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau: what's the news?
That speaks thy words again to do thee harm!
You'll ne'er be friends with him; a' kill'd your sister.
harmony; I have not the skill.
This carol they began that hour,
I am ambitious for a motley coat.
Down with that sword! Tribunes, withdraw awhile.
Non, je reciterai a vous promptement: de hand, de
shepherd; from whose simplicity I think it not
My good lord cardinal, they vent reproaches
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
But in what habit will you go along?
No, I'll die here.
How now, Ophelia!
Where is Lucentio?
O good sir, my master charged me to deliver a ring
Hast cleansed my bosom, I from thee departed
the bear half dined on the gentleman: he's at it
To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
Care for us! True, indeed! They ne'er cared for us
The one is Murder, Rape is the other's name;
That she may long live here, God say amen!
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
You are welcome, sir.
If, Biondello, thou wert come ashore,
turkey-cocks. God pless you, Aunchient Pistol! you
But first begs pardon: will you sterner be
Why, man, how black?
The fitter for the King of heaven, that hath him.
I' fecks!
Now, by the gods that warlike Goths adore,
I would love you, if I could. To-morrow meet me all together.
Father, and in that name doth nature speak,--
For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Bretagne
I cannot do't without counters. Let me see; what am
He kneels down
Enter CONSTANCE, ARTHUR, and SALISBURY
Respecting what a rancorous mind he bears
In censure of his seeming.
let not my letter.
Not Iscariot, sir.
O knight thou lackest a cup of canary: when did I
To FLORIZEL
Their very noses had been counsellors
him to execution; for discipline ought to be used.
Or what his death will bring us.
must be witty now. She does so blush, and fetches
In our condition.
You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear
I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
Fears, and despairs; and all these for his marriage:
'Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves.'
To FLAVIUS
You and your ways; whose wraths to guard you from--
That we the horrider may seem to those
daughters thy mothers: for when thou gavest them
I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk;
We did not quote them so.
Receive them then, the tribute that I owe,
Full of strange shapes, of habits and of forms,
Which then he wore; the snatches in his voice,
Exeunt
Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence,
Commend me to my loving countrymen,--
This is the pit, and this the elder-tree.
Chief nourisher in life's feast,--
dream. Here, here, here be my keys: ascend my
at home; therefore leave us.
Your servant, princes. Good my lord of Rome,
When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness,
poor king her father.
I am fear'd in field and town:
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
No, I am an ape.
And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,
Draws, and wounds RODERIGO
Had his great name profaned with their scorns
Disorder, horror, fear and mutiny
And I another
Am I not stay'd for? tell me.
With a wench.
Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.
Thou loathed issue of thy father's loins!
Dispersed those vapours that offended us;
Away, I say, and bring them hither straight.
Such men my friends than enemies. Go on,
For I can guess that by thy honest aid
Reigns in the hearts of all our present parts.
Is it not well? What should you need of more?
Who I'll entreat to lead me.
Though my estate be fallen, I was well born,
and forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold
Of noble Richard! then true noblesse would
Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds,
at suit of his gray beard,--
'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
No, my good lord; but Pluto sends you word,
bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker?
Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
This gentleman is happily arrived,
Is 't not the king?
Lolling the tongue with slaughtering, having work
Have with you.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
And little of this great world can I speak,
New customs,
the least syllable of thy addition.
If I return, I shall be post indeed,
And that I owe Olivia.
How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
necessary. It is said, 'many a man knows no end of
As will revenge these bitter woes of ours.
To sit with us once more, with better heed
A diminution in our captain's brain
Are those my tents where I perceive the fire?
And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.
Thaliard, behold, here's poison, and here's gold;
On the bat's back I do fly
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
Then doth it well appear that Salique law
Subscribes
What viler thing upon the earth than friends
As many vouched rarities are.
Lucilius' Servant	Here's mine.
Seem to break loose; take on as you would follow,
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
We would not die in that man's company
To see how God in all his creatures works!
Nor I, ungracious, speak unto myself
For more assurance that a living prince
How in my words soever she be shent,
Exit
What, is he arrested? Tell me at whose suit.
'Tis but a man gone. Forth, my sword: he dies.
Must help you more than you are hurt by me.
If by me broke, what fool is not so wise
'Tis policy and stratagem must do
Keep house and port and servants as I should:
shall never laugh but in that maid's company! But
Edward, my lord, your son, our king, is dead.
your poor disposer's sick.
transported.
His loving bosom to keep down his heart.
Ten thousand dollars to our general use.
I have not that alacrity of spirit,
That were a state fit for his holiness.
Fie, now you run this humour out of breath,
Noble patricians, patrons of my right,
Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
done! Answer, clerk.
Gives the ring
We have no reason to desire it,
My Lord Bassanio upon more advice
No, I will do nothing at thy bidding: make thy
Obscure and lowly swain, King Henry's blood,
Amen, so you be none.
Think on Lord Hastings: despair, and die!
They play
Who had been hither sent on the debating
That light we see is burning in my hall.
Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger
In second husband let me be accurst!
I may not go in without your worship: they will not
Hath conjured to attend. I know the merchant.
[To OLIVIA]  So comes it, lady, you have been mistook:
See as thou wast wont to see:
Now to plain-dealing; lay these glozes by:
Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name.
This, and all else
Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle,
Should by the minute feed on life and lingering
his shrift.
Too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven!
off.
Sir, my circumstances,
Seek him out, and play the tune the while.
Surprised! by whom?
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
The multitudinous seas in incarnadine,
Thus to make poor females mad.
When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile,
All circumstances well considered.
Ye should do service. Hark! the trumpets sound;
My lady goes to kill horns; but, if thou marry,
His days may finish ere that hapless time.
age, my very prop.
Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house,
He wants the natural touch: for the poor wren,
Here lies the east: doth not the day break here?
What is't, knave?
I pray, desire her call her wisdom to her.
Toward that shade I might behold addrest
I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the
your ladyship's good will to go to the world, Isbel
I love thee better now than e'er I did.
There is the man of my soul's hate, Aufidius,
I'll bring him to you.
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
On my black coffin let there be strown;
ACT III
Sir, good success!
Fall and no more: and, to atone your fears
Which traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and Messenger
But shall I hear him speak?
To be a queen, and crown'd with infamy!
As it makes harmful all that speak of it.
But that you do not love me.
Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm
Talk not to me: I will go sit and weep
To be a make-peace shall become my age:
Is heavy in my tongue. The king your father--
That never touch well welcome to thy hand,
Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
follow worse, till the worst of all follow him
You undergo too strict a paradox,
As self-neglecting.
And you too, gentle Hero?
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs,
Where he sits crowned in his master's spite.
Whispers
Sir, those cold ways,
do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet
Endured of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken
I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal.
lastly and finally, mine host of the Garter.
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
they are for the town's end, to beg during life.
Both too; and women's sons.
I'll lend it thee, my dear; but have no power
I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
Are your doors lock'd?
Still to return your own.
Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our
should be 'By this fire, that's God's angel:' but
Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest;
He makes a July's day short as December,
To DUKE OF AUMERLE
Be suffer'd to come near him.
Exeunt CARDINAL WOLSEY and his Train
They have placed their men of trust?
And so, his knell is knoll'd.
If we do fear this body hath a tail
O, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain,
His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
Come, shelter, shelter: I have removed Falstaff's
Or she that bore you was no queen, and you
To CATESBY
By this hat, then, he in the red face had it; for
That wash'd his father's fortunes forth of France,
Were all thy children kind and natural!
And do not seek to take your change upon you,
Enter ORLANDO, with a paper
the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
The curiosity of nations to deprive me,
Commend unto his lips thy favouring hand:
But Pandarus,--O gods, how do you plague me!
If their singing answer your saying, by my faith,
Why, thou say'st true; it is a paltry cap,
So hangs, and lolls, and weeps upon me; so hales,
He humbly prays your speedy payment.
Which great Love grant! and so, I take my leave.
Which rare it is to do--most praised, most loved,
Deliver them this paper: having read it,
Fear it not, sir: I would I were so sure
And unavoided is the danger now,
I have sweat to see his honour. My honoured lord,--
A daughter, and a goodly babe,
Wars have not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
Judge.
To bring manslaughter into form and set quarrelling
Not one accompanying his declining foot.
The heart of woman is! O Brutus,
And so may you; for a light heart lives long.
Nor I; my spirits are nimble.
I cannot, by the progress of the stars,
To stop devoted charitable deeds?
Against the Greeks that would have enter'd Troy.
I' the cave wherein they bow, their thoughts do hit
Err in bestowing it.
For in revenge of my contempt of love,
Ay, and good next day too.
obscenely and courageously. Take pains; be perfect: adieu.
hath no lean wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy
For testimony of her foul proceedings:
lay with the little baggage.
We trifle time: I pray thee, pursue sentence.
Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
Away, my disposition, and possess me
graces: confess yourself freely to her; importune
Old Gaunt indeed, and gaunt in being old:
Pluck me out all the linen.
yourself; for what is yours to bestow is not yours
is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries, when
Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely!
Upon my knowledge, he is, and lousy.
To no apparent likelihood of breach,
And I the house of York.
And therefore here I mean to take my leave.
What, here? O nation, that thou couldst remove!
If a man's brains were in's heels, were't not in
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
He's the devil.
Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee,
One of our convent, and his confessor,
That strain again! it had a dying fall:
And so doth yours; your fault was not your folly:
But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
'how many hast thou killed to-day?' 'Give my roan
All thy other titles thou hast given away; that
This comes with seeking you:
And by and by I will to thee appear.
thousand, and five hundred too.
What need you five and twenty, ten, or five,
I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
Here, hard by: stand close.
Cassio did top her; ask thy husband else.
Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO
My presence, like a robe pontifical,
Yet god Achilles still cries 'Excellent!
in our more rawer breath?
Bring me a father that so loved his child,
Away, away, good William de la Pole!
Rare Egyptian!
And, may I say to thee, this pride of hers,
I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
However, yet there is no great breach; when it comes,
She that, so young, could give out such a seeming,
With league whose date till death shall never end.
christenings? do you look for ale and cakes here,
What news, Sir Thomas Lovell?
Defacers of a public peace, than I do.
I am combined by a sacred vow
Is spied in populous cities.
Since now we will divest us both of rule,
hast a fine forehead.
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must
Mark our contract.
How 'scaped I killing when I cross'd you so?
The deep of night is crept upon our talk,
How! no more!
Heaven keep me from such counsel! 'Tis most true
Why, sir, for my part I say the gentleman had drunk
Make raging battery upon shores of flint.'
I shall have my noble?
How they may be, and yet in two,
Then walk we forth, even to the market-place,
And call the noblest to the audience.
bull-calf. What a slave art thou, to hack thy sword
You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,
Than ever frown in Greece. By Jove himself!
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave I speak it,
And then return and sleep within mine inn,
Ay, surely, mere the truth: I know his lady.
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
a man when King Pepin of France was a little boy, as
Or cease your quest of love?
Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day?
Thus to retort your manifest appeal,
From eaves of reeds. Your charm so strongly works 'em
Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows:
To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure.
And perform an old contracting.
If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, I would make thee
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable:
Never, Iago: Like to the Pontic sea,
Of happy holding her.
For I am almost ready to dissolve,
And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'
O earth, I will befriend thee more with rain,
cause to use thee with a serious industry, that is,
shake me up.
Upon the country where you make abode;
desire it.
And secretly to greet the empress' friends.
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
If I had thought the sight of my poor image
Exeunt
Enter YORK and BUCKINGHAM with their Guard and break in
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
Ay, mistress, and Petruchio is the master;
Is fled to heaven; and England now is left
Farewell, Cicero.
Their purposes toward Cyprus. Signior Montano,
digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to
Can you remember what I call'd the man?
Which forced marriage would have brought upon her.
Why, the enemy is loud; you hear him all night.
I do protest I never heard of it;
He cannot be such a monster--
Must make perforce an universal prey,
And how the English have the suburbs won.
Exit
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
And thy sea-marge, sterile and rocky-hard,
For who lived king, but I could dig his grave?
not; but, I am sure, none, unless the fiddler Apollo
The pound of flesh, which I demand of him,
Shall sweet Bianca practise how to bride it?
could drive her then from the ward of her purity,
Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
me, that of this I may speak more. If our father
Madam!
To learn the order of my fingering,
Let not my worser spirit tempt me again
And what to?
promise of his life and in the highest compulsion of
Beyond the mark of thought: and the high gods,
attain to! If thou wert the lion, the fox would
You would have given me your petition, that
As is a winged messenger of heaven
him.
Enter LAUNCE, with his his Dog
Most worthy sir, you therein throw away
Exit
Dies
With words of sovereignty.
Of comely virtues:
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence;
Enter LADY MACBETH
Be bold you do so grow in my requital
That for thy mother's fault art thus exposed
O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;
Heaven bless thee!
Is breach of all. I am ill, but your being by me
He dies that touches any of this fruit
It may be heard at court that such as we
If it be man's work, I'll do 't.
I pray you, bear vitness that me have stay six or
not to kill the duke.
Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
She holds her virtue still and I my mind.
A morsel for a monarch: and great Pompey
When must he die?
Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers,
thee, hind!
stick it in thy cap: when Alencon and myself were
I did commend your highness' letters to them,
'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
Stand not to answer: here, take thou the hilts;
Who comes here?
Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state,
A most outrageous fit of madness took him;
What the devil should move me to undertake the
Methinks the truth should live from age to age,
well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all
Of threescore and two years; a silly time
The stomach of my sense. Would I had never
Exeunt
Because, my lord, we would have had you heard
SCENE I. The forest.
Give thee quick conduct.
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
That's all one: has hurt me, and there's the end
Of thousand friends; then in a moment, see
O, sir, we doubt it not.
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
'Twill be a good way; and to-morrow the wrestling is.
Speak, who began this? on thy love, I charge thee.
Defective in their natures, grow to wildness,
Experience is by industry achieved
I know our safety is to follow them;
Yet I will try the last. Before my body
Enter CASSANDRA, raving
Lawful as eating.
Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
Enter GOWER, before the temple of DIANA at Ephesus
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
I dare make his answer, none.
Nor when thy warlike father, like a child,
Thy arm may do thee justice: here is mine.
Receiving them from such a worthless post.
Go you with me, uncle of Exeter.
ACT V
Well met, Corporal Nym.
her fortune, her marriage-dowry; with both, her
Painted on a pole, and underwrit,
My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks;
I came with Hermia hither: our intent
Divide thy lips, than we are confident,
Enter CINNA the poet
Enter Chorus
And nothing can we call our own but death
As thine is now, held with a brace of harlots.
drab I purchased this caparison, and my revenue is
Never to speak to lady afterward
I am but a fool, look you; and yet I have the wit to
Roderigo kill'd!
Rome shall record, and when I do forget
How does my old acquaintance of this isle?
Fear and be slain; no worse can come to fight:
To cross my friend in his intended drift
you, O the dearest of creatures, would even renew me
As the unsullied lily, I protest,
As good to chide the waves as speak them fair.
Am I a queen in title and in style,
Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts;
You snatch some hence for little faults; that's love,
Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours:
Let's fight it out and not stand cavilling thus.
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her:
O, 'tis a verse in Horace; I know it well:
Left by the fatal and neglected English
Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
In more than this deed does require! And blessing
I have but little gold of late, brave Timon,
Studies my lady? mistress, look on me;
But to maintain the king, the realm and you?
three neat-herds, three swine-herds, that have made
And on my side it is so well apparell'd,
I am resolved that thou shalt spend some time
The noise of battle hurtled in the air,
This doom, my lord, if I may judge:
And hope to joy is little less in joy
To arms invasive? shall a beardless boy,
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile,
The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion.
too little for your thief, your true man thinks it
His powerful sound within an organ weak:
I shall have none but Mordake Earl of Fife.
Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men,
Hence! home, you idle creatures get you home:
News have I, that my Nell is dead i' the spital
again. I go, sir; but I would not have you to think
Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
What we will do, we do upon command.
Disgorges such a tempest forth,
Why droops my lord, like over-ripen'd corn,
They love not poison that do poison need,
O, that your young nobility could judge
What services canst thou do?
Of nature be corrupted through affection,
What you have seen him do and heard him speak,
Yet I fear him;
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the
Her mother's, I have heard.
And heartily, for our deliverance;
heard! Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out
Not in the legions
Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy
regal. What canst thou answer to my majesty for
Of the Cinque-ports.
And so, with thanks and pardon to you all,
I think, to steal cream indeed, for thy theft hath
love to the Moor,-- put money in thy purse,--nor he
Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
Let him that thinks of me so abjectly
Where are thy tenants and thy followers?
Been justled from your senses, know for certain
A merriment than a vice.
Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt
It is spoke as a Christians ought to speak.
I fell with curses.
And you tell me that he shall die for it.
So are those crisped snaky golden locks
But only seeing, all other circumstances
And now 'tis up again: it must be married
Your sword upon a woman?
I would set an ox-head to your lion's hide,
Enter STANLEY
I know I can do it.
I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.
He is complete in feature and in mind
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
And for amends to his posterity,
There are the players.
My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock
Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?
'Tis most convenient; pray you, go with us.
A glass that feated them, and to the graver
Your Italy contains none so accomplished a courtier
Whiles the eye of man did woo me,
Too old by heaven: let still the woman take
It is to you, good people, that I speak,
For men to see, and seeing wonder at.
like a porter: and he was in love.
Upon mine honour, he shall never know
Enter another Messenger
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
Ay, a minced man: and then to be baked with no date
[Aside]  A pretty moral.
He came but to be Duke of Lancaster,
In the sick air: let not thy sword skip one:
Good friar, let's hear it.
Stick fiery off indeed.
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
Begin to part their fringes of bright gold;
Which often leaves the history unspoke
were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear!
O, let me see thee walk: thou dost not halt.
Nor I, my lord.
Fare you well: pray heaven I be deceived in you!
ACT I
philosopher, when he had a desire to eat a grape,
You'll not endure him! God shall mend my soul!
would not ha' your distemper in this kind for the
ACT I
Where most she satisfies; for vilest things
And send him many years of sunshine days!
the king shall know your mind.
Can he not be sociable?
Here, there, and every where, he leaves and takes,
That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain.
In what you please: I'll do what I can.
To tear the garter from thy craven's leg,
As we rate boys, who, being mature in knowledge,
If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing
That the whole life of Athens were in this!
With sad unhelpful tears, and with dimm'd eyes
'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
Thou takest up
Thy head, thy sovereign; one that cares for thee,
I am of your fear for that.
But all's not done; yet keep the French the field.
bosom, if ever man went to Arthur's bosom. A' made
As I do love my father.
Guess at her years, I prithee.
wisdom? so.
The more that Henry was unfortunate.
No, my lord,
thy sovereign.
What, art thou angry, Pandarus? what, with me?
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
I will not leave him now till Cassio
SCENE I. Before LEONATO'S house.
Not my virginity yet [         ]
Wise! why, no question but he was.
The smile mocking the sigh, that it would fly
Hide it in smiles and affability:
Head, and butt! an hasty-witted body
Even as I have of fertile England's soil.
Exeunt
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
God save the king! God save the king!
A father cruel, and a step-dame false;
Fools had ne'er less wit in a year;
A fit or two o' the face; but they are shrewd ones;
And deck my body in gay ornaments,
Come, tell me whose it was.
That, methinks, is strange.
past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,
To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
If you be one, as you are well express'd
Thanks, fairest lady.
Richard and Hastings: let them go; here is The duke.
Here is a captain, let him tell the tale;
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
Now, by my sword,--
I pray now, call her.
First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I
In faith, they are as true of heart as we.
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
gold again: fourscore ducats at a sitting!
What's that?
doublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in
But the rarity of it is,--which is indeed almost
That we may be admitted where he is.
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees,
That therefore only are reputed wise
These eyes that never shed remorseful tear,
Sour-eyed disdain and discord shall bestrew
all, it is impossible. My lords, Saint Alban here
I think you have
Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
SCENE IV. The same. A street.
come unbutton here.
carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,
death: do not satisfy your resolution with hopes
Lucentio, 'hic est,' son unto Vincentio of Pisa,
Would he were gelt that had it, for my part,
This proffer'd benefit of dignity;
friend, your brother Troilus,--
A very even way, but no such friend.
And beggar'd yours for ever?
Disgrace to your great worths and shame to me,
cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
Vengeance of Jenny's case! fie on her! never name
Will lose his beauty; yet the gold bides still,
There have been,
protest I loved you.
O valiant cousin! worthy gentleman!
Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom:
Into our hands; and to confine yourself
can hardly make distinction of our hands.
Enter another Messenger
Do your will.
damned for this, the devil himself will have no
I'll not sleep neither: this mortal house I'll ruin,
[Within]                Let her come in.
[Aside to ISABELLA]
Mother, you have my father much offended.
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
To an ass, were nothing; he is both ass and ox: to
Pierced to the soul with slander's venom'd spear,
Offering to kiss her
Enter a Lord
Camillo for the minister to poison
What, no more ceremony? See, my women!
And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags
That all the world will be in love with night
By Christ's dear blood shed for our grievous sins,
so I, being Master Parson, am Master Parson; for,
Enter KING RICHARD II and QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE,  BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT, LORD ROSS, and LORD WILLOUGHBY
cause. A word, my lord.
And for because the world is populous
as it hath power, but as it is suffered. Come to
To nothing temporal.
commission for more heads: if this law hold in
I thank you; you shall hear from me anon:
For the gods are quick of ear, and I am sworn
Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do;
I would I were at home.
Pyramus draws near the wall: silence!
Received that sum, yet there remains unpaid
Benedick's face,--
The sun shines hot; and, if we use delay,
To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales
By heaven, you did; and to confirm it plain,
Sound trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN  MARGARET, GLOUCESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, and SALISBURY;  the DUCHESS, MARGARET JOURDAIN, SOUTHWELL, HUME, and BOLINGBROKE, under guard
Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul,
So buxom, blithe, and full of face,
We will bear home that lusty blood again
rush for Tom's forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove
You men will never tarry.
No, none that thou hast wit enough to make.
Wert thou the devil, and worest it on thy horn,
For then she never looks upon her lure.
Caesar, I shall.
And gave his countenance, against his name,
The fool slides o'er the ice that you should break.
Then westward-ho! Grace and good disposition
Thou strikest not me, 'tis Caesar thou defeat'st.
Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair,
Is warlike John; and in his forehead sits
I will have more, or else unsay't; and now,
Exit BUCKINGHAM
Be quiet, people. Wherefore throng you hither?
We hear not of him, neither need we fear him;
Re-enter Clown
Will she away to-night?
His overthrow heap'd happiness upon him;
Though it do split you; for, from this day forth,
doublet quickly.
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
Most savage and unnatural!
persuaded I will marry her, out of her own love and
If your grace
Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.
DIANA CAPILET.
'Tis very strange.
Judas's own children.
speak to thee in drink but in tears, not in
And say she uttereth piercing eloquence:
No more be done:
He prays you to save his life: he is a gentleman of
more, proceed accordingly.
But when I tell him he hates flatterers,
Good even, good Master What-ye-call't: how do you,
Shadowing their right under your wings of war:
For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter;
Pale as thy smock! when we shall meet at compt,
Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, FABIAN, and MARIA
Him that thou magnifiest with all these titles
Exit POINS
So is the fame.
of no one good quality worthy your lordship's
That so stood out against the holy church,
I will hear you, Master Fenton; and I will at the
I cannot project mine own cause so well
Pardon, dear madam: 'tis a passing shame
But pardon me; I do not in position
Believe't not lightly--though I go alone,
Let's leave the hermit pity with our mothers,
This happy night the Frenchmen are secure,
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
I cannot leave to love, and yet I do;
Comes Warwick, backing of the Duke of York;
That wilt not stay her tongue.
Exit GRUMIO
To show less sovereignty than they, must needs
So princes their renowns if not respected.
A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell.
Did ever Dian so become a grove
Where is he?
Death! my lord,
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
And by and by intend to chide myself
Oft expectation fails and most oft there
joint-ring, nor for measures of lawn, nor for
Hear me, for I will speak.
talk of horse and armour?
Exit with Servant
And dwell upon your grave when you are dead;
Let's all cry 'Peace, freedom and liberty!'
stuff a rabbit; and so may you, sir: and so, adieu,
Enter ARIEL
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Lord mayor, the reason we have sent--
Which I was much unwilling to proceed in
Now will I hence to seek my lovely Moor,
gentleman, you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife.
In good sadness, I am sorry that for my sake you
I writ at random, very doubtfully.
O noble Caesar!
Found truth in all but one: I, in twelve thousand, none.
Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for to
it with stamped coin, not stabbing steel; therefore
I have awhile given truce unto my wars,
For the offence he dies. This is our doom:
Have leave and leisure to make love to her
Polecats! there are fairer things than polecats, sure.
Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late:
Exeunt
Will we take throughly.
My fancy to your eyes: when I consider
That any thing he sees, which moves his liking,
When I bestrid thee in the wars and took
How does the king?
Go with me to it and I'll show it you and by the way
And balms applied to, you, yet dare I never
Good night, and good repose.
And the vile squealing of the wry-neck'd fife,
Let it be forbid, sir; so should I be a great deal
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
By sea, by sea.
By law and process of great nature thence
Enter ULYSSES
He hath a drug of mine; I pray his absence
Watching breeds leanness, leanness is all gaunt:
It will be for his gentle daughter's sake:
I have a little yet to say. Look there, my lords;
Upon the innocent and aweless throne:
Commend me to them,
The other eye of Gloucester.
I shall have my eight shillings I won of you at betting?
For, by these blessed candles of the night,
Than my unpleased eye see your courtesy.
the danger is in standing to't; that's the loss of
I answer you! what should I answer you?
And look to have it yielded with all willingness.
the anatomy.
Thou hast, Sebastian, done good feature shame.
O, God defend me! how am I beset!
Exeunt
And here the abbess shuts the gates on us
Has done no more than other knights have done;
So, Dolabella,
Since his addiction was to courses vain,
But at this hour the house doth keep itself;
mistress is one, and I am her fool. When men come
His wife that's dead did trespasses to Caesar;
What beast! why, an otter.
And, as I am a gentleman, I'll give thee
I am sick of this false world, and will love nought
Cleave in the midst, and perish.
'Confess' and 'love'
You cannot make gross sins look clear:
are they that hear their detractions and can put
any in Rome.
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
You weigh me not? O, that's you care not for me.
Exit
livelihood from her cheek. No more of this, Helena;
Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,
Lo, now I now see the issue of your peace.
How churlishly I chid Lucetta hence,
He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
Good Paulina,
The loyal'st husband that did e'er plight troth:
We may boldly spend upon the hope of what
unserviceable: the troops are all scattered, and
give me so much of your time in exchange of it, as
I cannot tell vat is dat.
thine, Ireland is thine, France is thine, and Harry
Enough; hold or cut bow-strings.
Enter CLOTEN
Will triumph o'er my person; which I weigh not,
Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
had you rather lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels?
He has brave utensils,--for so he calls them--
Peace!
As ample as myself.
Hold, sir, for God's sake! now your jest is earnest:
Bestride the rock; the tide will wash you off,
O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spilt
Distinguish form: so your sweet majesty,
My noble father, Henry of Buckingham,
Ay, sir, it is too true; God help the while!
And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
there: I will go.
May be he tells you true.
Unless you please to enter in the castle
Well hath your highness seen into this duke;
propositions of a lover; but take a taste of my
That I return'd with simular proof enough
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
To equal any single crown o' the earth
As you, prince Paris, nothing but heavenly business
Who stood equivalent with mighty kings:
But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope
Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
Well said, Master Parson.
Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
Then every thing includes itself in power,
Here, sweet, put up this: 'twill be thine another day.
Who dares do more is none.
With divers-colour'd fans, whose wind did seem
You do look, my son, in a moved sort,
For powers in Scotland; which, for divers reasons
If consequence do but approve my dream,
So was I when your highness banish'd him:
In every thing but in loving Benedick.
Whence cometh this alarum and the noise?
Inhabits in the finest wits of all.
And think to wed it, he is so above me:
Are we not brothers?
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
me: your name, I think, is Adrian.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
Tell me, and dally not, where is the money?
With his prepared sword, he charges home
But shall we make the welkin dance indeed? shall we
What rub or what impediment there is,
Yet fear not thou, but speak audaciously.'
Why, Paris hath colour enough.
For I have given here my soul's consent
To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
Or thou wert born a fool. Camillo's flight,
And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.
Reason becomes the marshal to my will
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
Tell her I have chastised the amorous Trojan,
Even or odd, of all days in the year,
When our quick minds lie still; and our ills told us
So says the bond: doth it not, noble judge?
I shall take it, sir: we have used our throats in Egypt.
Yet throw such changes of vexation on't,
amends is but patched with virtue. If that this
Enter ANTONY and others, with CAESAR's body
ANTIPHOLUS
think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
O blessed heavens!
times upon far poorer moment: I do think there is
Each man to his stool, with that spur as he would to
I am the master of my speeches, and would undergo
To dash our late decree in parliament
Enter a Messenger
Against the brows of this resisting town.
Tell on thy mind; I say thy child shall live.
They are all welcome.
He is not sick.
Could fetch your brother from the manacles
Affection! thy intention stabs the centre:
I am no strumpet; but of life as honest
Or else misgraffed in respect of years,--
Call Warwick patron and be penitent?
to-morrow wed her; but it would better fit your honour
The praise of it by telling, you must know,
As nothing can unroot you. In happy time;
We left them all at home: but we are soldiers;
Or memorise another Golgotha,
My Lord Pandarus; honey-sweet lord,--
Of what I was i' the morning: but next day
Exit
As perfectly is ours as yours, my lord;
See how he fares.
But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport.
Then never dream on infamy, but go.
like you, sir?
Thou damned and luxurious mountain goat,
So that you had her wrinkles and I her money,
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Offered by a child to an old man; which is wit-old.
Came to the bar; where to his accusations
I will not meet with you to-morrow night:
Or a half-moon made with a pen.
Ay, grief, I fear me, both at first and last.
Seals a commission to a blank of danger;
To give your censures in this weighty business?
Paysans, pauvres gens de France;
So I had nothing known. O, now, for ever
By the misprising of a maid too virtuous
I do serve you in this business.
O king Stephano! O peer! O worthy Stephano! look
this letter: the army of France is landed. Seek
I am not weary, and 'tis long to night:
say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are
Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
His eyes were green as leeks.
A common slave--you know him well by sight--
Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:
I cannot stay thanksgiving.
This is no place; this house is but a butchery:
[Aside to ARIEL]  My tricksy spirit!
The aediles, ho!
Foh, foh! adieu; you palter.
Exeunt
Shall then my father's will be of no force
Come, soldiers, show what cruelty ye can,
ne'er have denied his occasion so many talents.
Tell me, was he arrested on a band?
monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted;
Indeed, I bid the base for Proteus.
A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
Revenge the jeering and disdain'd contempt
Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,
Was I for this nigh wreck'd upon the sea
You mainly were stirr'd up.
Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it,
Courage! there will be pity taken on you: you that
Marry, peace it bodes, and love and quiet life,
According to the gift which bounteous nature
Would ever have, to incur a general mock,
He solemnly had sworn, that what he spoke
O God!
Patience, good lady! comfort, gentle Constance!
The queen from France hath brought a puissant power:
Enter another Messenger
'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves,
The thoughts of people: she told her, while
Thou didst well; for wisdom cries out in the
But if you  knew to whom you show this honour,
Which heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues.
Enter a Soldier, seeking TIMON
For here it sleeps, and does no hired harm.
Gloucester, why doubt'st thou of my forwardness?
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
'Tis a hard bondage to become the wife
That thou turn rascal; hadst thou wealth again,
Invited her to supper: she replied,
And then the moon, like to a silver bow
shall do it.
So think I too.
The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
With mine officer!
In that he did the thing for which he died:
Of saucy and audacious eloquence.
This is a trick to put me from my suit:
And make a pastime of each weary step,
I'll rather kill myself.
O Caesar!--
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
Is it new and old too? how may that be?
To add unto his sickness? No, my Brutus;
I thank my God for my humility.
[Beneath]  Swear.
My mind will never grant what I perceive
Frighting her pale-faced villages with war
Weaving spiders, come not here;
Why, you were with him, were you not?
Is it my fault that I was Geffrey's son?
Scars to move laughter only.
thing, that of the skin of an innocent lamb should
Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays,
But, O, what damned minutes tells he o'er
Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
Enter, below, MARK ANTONY, borne by the Guard
When you are cloudy.
Fair glass of light, I loved you, and could still,
And all-to topple: pure surprise and fear
[To KENT]  Prithee, tell him, so much the rent of
And bear his courses to be ordered
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
is, even till the altitude of his virtue.
The colour of the king doth come and go
And call'd Marina?
Why are you virtuous? why do people love you?
QUEEN and Ladies retire
there; and yet it will no more but abide.
Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made,
Is it good den?
Or bathe my dying honour in the blood
Most resolute Pompey!
A grandam's name is little less in love
Walk into her house;
Where is the horse that doth untread again
I would I had any drum of the enemy's: I would swear
The good precedence; fie upon 'But yet'!
truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous; 'tis
To monarchize, be fear'd and kill with looks,
I did not send you: if you find him sad,
That's one of them.
Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.
There, my lord:
Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,
The want is but to put those powers in motion
could run as fast as thou canst. You are straight
there was not any man died in his own person,
And if I be, sir, is it any offence?
Am I like such a fellow?
And floating straight, obedient to the stream,
Sir William Brandon, you shall bear my standard.
Adieu.
Abates the ardour of my liver.
Away, you trifler! Love! I love thee not,
O God of battles! steel my soldiers' hearts;
circle. I'll go sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll
Warwick may lose, that now hath won the day.
All faults I make, when I shall come to know them,
With opening titles miscreate, whose right
maledictions against king and nobles; needless
do, but in the way of honesty: how she died of the
To wag their high tops and to make no noise,
And I say, the pollusion holds in the exchange; for
O, give me leave, I have deluded you:
Most heavy day!
Is to be made, then shall this hand and seal
Have thus proceeded.
I'll lop a member off and give it you
Nor, by my will, assubjugate his merit,
And I to be a corporal of his field,
In brief, to set the needless process by,
Some means to come to shrift this afternoon;
Brave followers, yonder stands the thorny wood,
The words would add more anguish than the wounds.
As have thy love? Why dost not speak to me?
Lays her full mess before you. Want! why want?
Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords,
Attend his majesty!
Have satisfied the king for his divorce,
But as a thing of custom: 'tis no other;
For there is none of you so mean and base,
He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
For his quick hunting, stand the putting on,
These two young gentlemen, that call me father
You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first: 'tis a
Ay, that Petruchio came.
Lightens my humour with his merry jests.
[Going]  My lord, I take my leave.
[Aside]  Villain and he be many miles asunder.--
A prince of Macedon, my royal father;
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
SCENE II. Friar Laurence's cell.
How now, my friend! why dost thou look so pale?
One sees more devils than vast hell can hold,
Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do,
How many hours bring about the day;
What's this, Comelius?
Music and poesy use to quicken you;
Angelo, came not to an undoubtful proof.
For Warwick and his friends, God and Saint George!
'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
Well, 'tis not so, my lord high constable;
May answer my good will and your good welcome here.
Why, what a caterwauling dost thou keep!
For sluttish spoils of opportunity
Go, hide thee behind the arras: the rest walk up
But I will rise there with so full a glory
Spirit,
Are come with Cassius.
Of hoarding abbots; imprisoned angels
Dead Shepherd, now I find thy saw of might,
have found in any part of Illyria. Will you walk
Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way
Madam, within; but never man so changed.
feelingly now?
O slow-wing'd turtle! shall a buzzard take thee?
My gracious liege, this too much lenity
Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,
Exit an Attendant
Drop-heir that killed lusty Pudding, and Master
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
Pointing at OSWALD
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
Her ashes, in an urn more precious
From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall and make him
Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
[Aside]  If a talent be a claw, look how he claws
cuckold. Come to me soon at night.
And that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee,
Let's hear him, for the things he speaks
Who have we here? Rome's royal empress,
Exit
Please ye we may contrive this afternoon,
A noble fellow, I warrant him.
I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art king, as, God
More than to us
And at thy feet I kneel, with tears of joy,
Ay, my good lord, and she accepts of it.
That ever govern'd man.
I do believe it.
Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
O, but I love his lady too too much,
Neapolitan's, a better bad habit of frowning than
Ay, I'll be sworn. My master knows not of your
Partly that I have need of such a youth
But meeting with Salerio by the way,
When he himself might his quietus make
Hail, noble Marcius!
And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear
How! is this true?
Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go bear thou
And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust Ye?
Then I am paid;
Else would I very shortly see thee there.
Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon?
Mustardseed.
That sets them on: let me have way, my lord,
skim milk with so honourable an action! Hang him!
Ay, forsooth.
Good morrow to thee, gentle Apemantus!
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
Come, Hastings, help me to my closet.
Nor did you think it folly
A thing more made of malice than of duty:
Anon, sir. Pray stay a little, my lord.
With the Duke of Suffolk.
Hail to you both!
Enter DESDEMONA with EMILIA
Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.
For so we are inform'd, with new opinions,
Brother, a word; descend: brother, I say!
Exeunt Messenger and certain Lords
The boy replied, 'An angel is not evil;
Who is it that hath warn'd us to the walls?
Audacious cruelty. If that the king
If it be found so, some will dear abide it.
But I will charm him first to keep his tongue.
Good my lord, bid him welcome: this is the
With some suspicion. I will weep for thee;
Exit Poins
It's almost morning, is't not?
The argument you held was wrong in you:
Into Hey nonny, nonny.
many in our land by the name of pitch: this pitch,
Sweet ornament that decks a thing divine!
Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace.
To give me secret harbour, hath a purpose
A full-hot horse, who being allow'd his way,
And mar men's spurring. Crack the lawyer's voice,
Ye're honest men: ye've heard that I have gold;
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
As thou art a knave, and no knave. What an
for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
Of any prince so wild a libertine.
Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:
cattle of this colour; would now like him, now loathe
there's something extraordinary in thee. Come, I
Arm, arm, my lord; the foe vaunts in the field.
I'll not believe't.
apples. But come; since this bar in law makes us
Haply a woman's voice may do some good,
Well or ill,
He was? Why, so! go all which way it will!
SCENE II. The Earl of Gloucester's castle.
Unhappily, even so.
A dedicated beggar to the air,
I better brook than flourishing peopled towns:
As he'ld burst heaven; threw him on my father;
Advise you what you say; the minister is here.
Displace our heads where--thank the gods!--they grow,
That marry wives. Tell me, how if my brother,
Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul.
And I seeing this came thence for very shame;
Thy murderous falchion smoking in his blood;
But, true it is, from France there comes a power
Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight;
My lord,--
Mine honour'd lady!
Your charity, and hundreds call themselves
Advantage feeds him fat, while men delay.
dashed out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he
Exeunt LUCIO and Gentlemen
Ay, by gar, and 'tis a boy: by gar, I'll raise all Windsor.
sun looking with a southward eye upon him, where he
We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar;
I talk of that, that know it.
Great Agamemnon, Nestor shall apply
She'll be a soldier too, she'll to the wars.
distance, thy montant. Is he dead, my Ethiopian? is
To woo your lady:
We shall be much unwelcome.
Call him a slanderous coward and a villain:
To seem to die ere sick: so please you, leave me;
Exit BARDOLPH
Lawn as white as driven snow;
I bid my very friends and countrymen,
In differences so mighty. If she be
Two yards, and more.
It hath been sung at festivals,
Every thing that heard him play,
I wander from the jewels that I love.
I doubt he be hurt. Fare ye well, good niece.
Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?
That noble-minded Titus means to thee!
Have with you, prince. My courteous lord, adieu.
Ne'er through an arch so hurried the blown tide,
Is this true, Nerissa?
The county's man: he left this ring behind him,
To whom they go to. What will you read to her?
Exit
Will come when it will come.
Ties up my tongue, and will not let me speak.
Unto the sovereign mercy of the king;
O vanity of sickness! fierce extremes
May he not do it by fine and recovery?
Pray heavens he be;
But cannot be true servant to my master,
Thy maiden sword.
Will you buy any tape,
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
Disguised like Muscovites, in shapeless gear;
Repast them with my blood.
Upon a wooden coffin we attend,
his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle;
I am the sea; hark, how her sighs do blow!
The music plays; vouchsafe some motion to it.
Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence,
Clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
the happiness of life.
captain-general of the Grecian army, Agamemnon,
I'll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit the
In bed he slept not for my urging it;
Only for them; and mine eternal jewel
Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet.
Would any of the stock of Barrabas
A parley sounded. Enter REIGNIER on the walls
there's a double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's
his majesty, out of a self-gracious remembrance, did
Exit
Lo, this is all:--nay, yet depart not so;
hears with ear'? why, it is affectations.
some occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking
And only in that safety died her brothers.
Another alarum. The Volsces fly, and MARCIUS follows them to the gates
And at that instant like a babe sprung up.
Peace, foolish woman.
Such is the fulness of my heart's content.
On this Ascension-day, remember well,
As double as the duke's: he will divorce you;
Of hurlyburly innovation:
Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep;
that shake me thus. Pish! Noses, ears, and lips.
As great in blood as I myself.--
stand for his place. He received in the repulse of
And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me:
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  Will Caesar weep?
Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say no.
The shadow or your face.
If they be senators: and they are no less,
A trumpet sounds
the service, and the tied! Why, man, if the river
not but to die a fair death for all this, if I
these letters: I know not which is which.
The villain is o'er-raught of all my money.
You lie, you are not he.
Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike.
To Angelo
And make my wars on you: look to't: come on;
For truth, for duty, and for loyalty.
To thee a woman's services are due:
'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself:
Alas, poor wenches, where are now your fortunes!
That they did give the rings away to men;
Which, if thou hast consider'd, let us know
Since you lack virtue, I will lose a husband;
the princess; I say none so fit as to present the
Good Catesby, go, effect this business soundly.
in valour, in every thing illegitimate. One bear will
Instinctively had quit it: there they hoist us,
To tear and havoc more than she can eat.
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart
May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute
Not a jot more, my lord.
Nay, and you shall hear some.
But still remember what the Lord hath done.
How begot, how nourished?
O, would I were to die with Salisbury!
By bare imagination of a feast?
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
What three things does drink especially provoke?
With how depraved a quality--O Regan!
How I have govern'd our determined jest?
I ought to know of: and, upon my knees,
display to the night.
with malice and malice forced with wit turn him to?
They sale of offices and towns in France,
O, come, Ventidius,
Is not infected: but if one present
And for his sake wear the detested blot
'Tis unnatural,
Senseless! not so.
after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex?
Here! go; the desk, the purse! sweet, now, make haste.
Fills him with faults; makes him run through all the sins:
Then call'd you for the l'envoy.
Where, being but a private man again,
Do not you chide; I have a thing for you.
That will be excellent. I'll go and buy them vizards.
An armour, friends! I pray you, let me see it.
favourably minister.
Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
SCENE III. A room in the Garter Inn.
hadst been still with me, I could have taught my
Else he had been damned for cozening the devil.
Build his statue to make him glorious:
As I suppose, to Robert Faulconbridge,
Her dowery wealthy, and of worthy birth;
For's private friends: his answer to me was,
Not more resembles that sweet rosy lad
How yet resolves the governor of the town?
I fear, with dancing is a little heated.
O the heavens!
Come on, then; horse and chariots let us have,
Could ever hear by tale or history,
Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women
And never yet did insurrection want
Whiles other men have gates and those gates open'd,
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
Sentinels at their post
Most noble lord,
That first we come to words; and therefore have we
and make a vassal of him.
The third o' the world is yours; which with a snaffle
to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother:
But cast their gazes on Marina's face;
Thou cacodemon! there thy kingdom is.
Might go one way, and safely; and the end
rightly, is, 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'
Why, are all your beggars whipped, then?
Then let my father's honours live in me,
Why,
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
Forced in the ruthless, vast, and gloomy woods? See, see!
Make rash remonstrance of my hidden power
As where's that palace whereinto foul things
And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,
Every good hap to you that chances here:
With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
Do press among the popular throngs and puff
And plant in tyrants mild humility.
Thou art going to Lord Timon's feast?
complaint they have to the king concerns him
The tyrant's people on both sides do fight;
A worthy friend. The king has made him master
You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter:
The very list, the very utmost bound
Why, there's a wench! Come on, and kiss me, Kate.
That may with reasonable swiftness add
I will not trust you, sir.
Find we a time for frighted peace to pant,
I did not then entreat to have her stay;
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit-trees,
Hop forty paces through the public street;
Why brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
leap-frog, or by vaulting into my saddle with my
Before our army. Thy Pacorus, Orodes,
Or I'll attach you by this officer.
Did make my way long forth.
scall, scurvy cogging companion, the host of the Garter.
Re-enter PUCK
You shall know all that you are like to know.
Which I will bear in triumph to the king,
She may more suitors have and me for one.
is the way: and there dwells one Mistress Quickly,
So Antony loves.
Your fortunes are alike.
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
But is this law?
O'erflows the measure: those his goodly eyes,
Trumpet sounds. Enter certain Citizens upon the walls
If then one is, or hath, or means to be,
ease:' O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;
and my good friend Petruchio! How do you all at Verona?
valiant Jack Falstaff, and therefore more valiant,
For no ill will I bear you.
Encourage him, and show him all our reasons:
And dispossessing all my other parts
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
'The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals,
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
The sun and moon ne'er look'd upon!
And shivering shocks
Do so: and let no man abide this deed,
You know not what you do: do not consent
purse; I could have filed keys off that hung in
When thou comest thither--
Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
So hence! Be thou the trumpet of our wrath
Nature in you stands on the very verge
He hath not touch'd you yet. I am young;
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
i' the church. I have dogged him, like his
bald-pated, lying rascal, you must be hooded, must
No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge,
As well as I do know your outward favour.
And till she stoop she must not be full-gorged,
Of all the world I loved and to him put
Who, as we hear, are busily in arms:
There, take it; and much thanks for my good cheer.
It shall be eased, if France can yield relief.
Why, sir, he comes not.
Go cheerfully together and digest.
Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat,
Yet hear me, countrymen; yet hear me speak.
Hence, away! now all is well:
I would not be thy executioner:
By your leave; I cry you mercy: give your worship
As little skill to fear as I have purpose
What! art thou, like the adder, waxen deaf?
Fear'st thou that, Antonio?
We need more light to find your meaning out.
Thou hast been godlike perfect,
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
You, that have turn'd off a first so noble wife,
What have you dream'd of late of this war's purpose?
[Aside]  O knowledge ill-inhabited, worse than Jove
Re-enter URSULA
Here they rob them and bind them. Exeunt
I do beseech you, as in way of taste,
The Moor hath kill'd my mistress! Murder! murder!
And graced thy poor sire with his bridal-day,
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thou then wouldst kill me: do't; the time is come:
He of Winchester
And out of you she sees herself more proper
'Tide life, 'tide death, I come without delay.
Poison'd,--ill fare--dead, forsook, cast off:
For beauty starved with her severity
Nor will do none to-morrow: he will keep that good name still.
Let me have men about me that are fat;
been that day in the belfry.
But yet they could have wish'd--they know not--
My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
You are like to do such business.
From my lord Biron, a good master of mine,
Was there none else in Rome to make a stale,
villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had
A gentle riddance. Draw the curtains, go.
But your kind hostess. Come, I'll question you
And you the blacker devil!
But come yourself with speed to us again;
You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
A husband and a son thou owest to me;
Pardon him, sweet Timandra; for his wits
If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.
It is against my will; for I desire
The hope and expectation of thy time
Of these most strange events:
And now worth nothing? Shall I have the thought
You do it her: and so, Sir John, farewell!
Room for six scotches more.
A most courteous exposition.
Sir, I shall not be slack: in sign whereof,
That Suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth
always reason themselves out again. What! a
Far than Deucalion off: mark thou my words:
Kate, to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much
Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe
A contract of eternal bond of love,
Will I give place or notice.
And 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him:
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy;
What folly 'tis to hazard life for ill!
My very character,--I'ld turn it all
Some god direct my judgment! Let me see;
her go through the streets, to know, sir, whether
Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither,
But we shall meet, and break our minds at large.
That we may hew his limbs, and on a pile
Ithaca full of moths. Come; I would your cambric
Nay, never paint me now:
good wine in thy master's way.
Why should I play the Roman fool, and die
At that that I have kill'd, my lord; a fly.
not well cut,' he disabled my judgment: this is
By false accuse doth level at my life:
To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar.
And bawds and whores do churches build;
And brought us thus together?
That things ill-got had ever bad success?
I beseech you a word: what is she in the white?
Being entreated to it by your friend.
her favours?
Out of thy honest truth, to play the woman.
To cozen him that would unjustly win.
Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.
Which fondly you would here impose on me;
mirth: Heaven forgive me! Why, I'll exhibit a bill
but fare you well.
wag, shall there be gallows standing in England when
Rise up, good aunt.
Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress,
[Aside]  To cart her rather: she's too rough for me.
Thy father was a traitor to the crown.
Trudge, plod away o' the hoof; seek shelter, pack!
the instruments,
Where eyes did once inhabit, there were crept,
Hath cut her throat already. No, 'tis slander,
Enter certain Nymphs
My Lord of Somerset will keep me here,
Mean and right poor, for that pure blood of mine
Her amber hair for foul hath amber quoted.
Sit then and talk with her; she is thine own.
Come, come, you are well understood to be a
What, can you do me greater harm than hate?
Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome,
Hath he born himself penitently in prison? how
Which I did store to be my foster-nurse
I do not like this fooling.
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
Enfeoff'd himself to popularity;
Expound unto me, boy.
My lord, when last I went to visit her,
Well, sir, what follows?
Which is the duke's own person?
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
O me unhappy!
In open market-place produced they me,
Should have borne men; and expectation fainted,
My countryman,--a Roman by a Roman
In the cathedral church of Westminster,
Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
her husband.
Hear me with patience.
Prepares for some attempt of war.
O cheerful colours! see where Oxford comes!
That hath not noble lustre in your eyes.
was never merry world in England since gentlemen came up.
Methought I saw a thousand fearful wrecks;
I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio.
Proclaim'd at market-crosses, read in churches,
Then here is a supplication for you. And when you
No part of him but will be shame in me.
When first I raised the tempest. Say, my spirit,
Didst thou? Lord, Lord, how this world is given to
ground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me;
Worthy Cominius, speak.
He wrings him by the ears
Sixscore fat oxen standing in my stalls,
your ensuing marriage;--surely suit ill spent and
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
Exeunt all but LYSANDER and HERMIA
What is it else? a madness most discreet,
There's honour in the theft.
sweet sewer.
hour, I will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a
'Be serviceable to my son,' quoth he,
Ay, are you thereabouts?
Bid Salisbury and Warwick come to me.
De nails, de arm, de ilbow.
Ten and eleven?
Who they should be that have thus many led you?
Enough of this; I pray thee, hold thy peace.
The griefs between ye: to forget them quite
Clock strikes
Enter a Messenger
And will to-morrow with his trumpet call
You either fear his humour or my negligence, that
And, ignorant of his birth and parentage,
To help me sort such needful ornaments
Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
Enter GOWER
your own fault and not mine: for had you been as I
As, walk'd your first queen's ghost,
We cannot weigh our brother with ourself:
Come, gentlemen, ye shall go my way, which
But my kisses bring again, bring again;
Aside
Our pleasure?
Tell me once more what title thou dost bear:
Let us, Lepidus,
Sir!
To re-salute his country with his tears,
In any of their courts.
'Tis so, be sure of it.
Fare you well.
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
They never do beget a coal-black calf.
Marry, our play is, The most lamentable comedy, and
Re-enter Attendant, with two Murderers
Good morrow, Hubert.
SCENE V. The same. Another room.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
But not away to-morrow!
My life and education both do learn me
For, till thou speak, thou shalt not pass from hence.
Sleeps. IACHIMO comes from the trunk
And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
Thus, for my duty's sake, I rather chose
Any annoyance in that precious sense!
I am your wife in all obedience.
That will not hold the handling: or say to them,
accent was a plain knave; which for my part
My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.
Aside
what is't?
And comes to his election presently.
through the town to Frogmore.
These flies are couch'd.
In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
[Aside]	Then poor Cordelia!
fardel will make him scratch his beard.
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily.
That day appear'd; and oft before gave audience,
uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither.
By day or night,
That frowns on me looks sadly upon him.
Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play
What though the common people favour him,
You are no maiden, but a monument:
Thou liest.
it.
The very virtue of compassion in thee,
Husband, I cannot pray that thou mayst win;
And I will follow, more for Silvia's love
Well could I bear that England had this praise,
Relate your wrongs; in what? by whom? be brief.
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
[Aside]  All will revolt from me, and turn to him.
According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases.
Ajax;' and he replies 'Thanks, Agamemnon.' What think
But when he saw my best alarum'd spirits,
Knocks go and come; God's vassals drop and die;
For virtue's office never breaks men's troth.
He has strangled
Noise within
Tillyvally. Lady!
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
The Florentines and Senoys are by the ears;
Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host:
Very well, my lord
Whi ch, in their throng and press to that last hold,
I warrant I love you more than you do me.
'Tis a brave army,
What, have I choked you with an argosy?
To shield thee from diseases of the world;
I am answered, sir.
Wherefore, gentle maiden,
alone, howsoever you speak this to feel other men's
SCENE I. A street in Westminster.
I cannot choose: sometime he angers me
DON
in the heart of the world, and especially of my own
will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la guerra.
Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers' ends: marry,
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!--
Thomas the Earl of Surrey, and himself,
been drowned, but that the shore was shelvy and
To front this present time.
Up, and away!
Such a Sebastian was my brother too,
But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies
If the springe hold, the cock's mine.
So get the start of the majestic world
What hoop should hold us stanch, from edge to edge
In this detested, dark, blood-drinking pit.
Mark Antony!
Slave, thou hast slain me: villain, take my purse:
I'd not believe thee. Henceforth guard thee well;
The plain-song is most just: for humours do abound:
In yours and my discharge.
If any bark put forth, come to the mart,
To an unsettled fancy cure thy brains,
She shall be habited as it becomes
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
Take thou no care; it shall be heeded.
Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home:
What is the matter here?
Do thou stand for my father, and examine me upon the
courtly and thou art too cunning. At whose request
This sword, this arm, and my best spirits, are bent
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
And look'd upon things precious as they were
Exeunt SEBASTIAN, and ANTONIO
She will, she will; justice hath liquored her. We
When 't pleased you to employ me.
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
'Our Britain s harts die flying, not our men:
proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
I'll sort some other time to visit you.
Exit
Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator;
What heard you him say else?
Haply the seas and countries different
He met the duke in the street, sir, of whom he hath
How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses!
And patches will I get unto these cudgell'd scars,
Thou art an unjust man in saying so: thou or any
Which to requite, command me while I live.
To throw down Hector than Polyxena:
Or senseless speaking or a speaking such
And hardly kept our countrymen together,
As they are sharing, the Prince and Poins set upon  them; they all run away; and Falstaff, after a blow or two, runs away too, leaving the booty behind them
Alas, I am a woman, friendless, hopeless!
And, as my fortune ripens with thy love,
Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt,
What you would have reform'd that is not well,
Whereof perchance these are but furnishings;
Mortality and mercy in Vienna
Is but a preface of her worthy praise;
The purple sap from her sweet brother's body
those which have walked in their sleep who have died
By hurting it; or when to the lute
To view the sick and feeble parts of France:
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
Give me their bodies, that I may bear them hence
Sir, sir,--
And this the cranny is, right and sinister,
I promise you, I scarcely know myself:
You may discern the place.
Horns and shout within. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA wake and start up
Titus, thou shalt obtain and ask the empery.
Always obedient to your grace's will,
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
Happily you may catch her in the sea;
the love come from her; they say too that she will
Go thou, and like an executioner,
His looks are full of peaceful majesty,
Why, so hath this, both by the father and mother.
'Good friend,' quoth he,
Bears not alive so stout a gentleman.
My mind gave me,
I beg this boon, with tears not lightly shed,
I will be silent.
medicine to a mortifying mischief. I cannot hide
And yet be seen to bear a woman's face?
most blessed condition.
For, by the image of my cause, I see
Strike, you slave; stand, rogue, stand; you neat
The remnant northward, lying off from Trent.
Why didst thou say, of late thou wert despised?
To LUCIUS
'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly order'd,
I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,
here lies the point:  if I drown myself wittingly,
[Within]  There's wood enough within.
Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft
Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
Of regular justice in your city's bounds,
That no supporter but the huge firm earth
Such pity as my rapier's point affords.
Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother.
confidence than her reputation: and, to bar your
What talkest thou to me of the hangman? if I hang,
And, as a branch and member of this royalty,
potatoes; let it thunder to the tune of Green
My lord, a prize, a prize! here's the Lord Say,
not: his disgrace is to be called boy; but his
counterfeit assurance: take you assurance of her,
The fore-end of my time. But up to the mountains!
And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.
Princely shall be thy usage every way.
So, underneath the belly of their steeds,
That visit my sad heart
Consent to swear.
Well, I am your theme: you have the start of me; I
Thou'ldst meet the bear i' the mouth. When the
But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out.
Run back and bite, because he was withheld;
Cap and knee slaves, vapours, and minute-jacks!
To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo:
I see old Gaunt alive; O, then, my father,
court. I think Crab, my dog, be the sourest-natured
I am angling now,
Prithee now, say you will, and go about it.
Jove knows I love: But who?
He calls us rebels, traitors; and will scourge
Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
linen: since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none but
To the court of King Simonides
gentlemanlike dogs under the duke's table: he had
Let's go in, gentlemen; but, trust me, we'll mock
O, your desert speaks loud; and I should wrong it,
And cried 'Inestimable!'--why do you now
Upright he held it, lords, that held it last.
Mine, such as fill my heart with unhoped joys.
thank God you are rid of a knave.
That God had lent us but this only child;
O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven
Quiet yourselves, I pray, and be at peace.
Good night and welcome, both at once, to those
O Hal, I prithee, give me leave to breathe awhile.
Exit Servant
Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
Think on my words.
Never, O never shall I see more joy!
With such delightful pleasing harmony.
Sooth, la, I'll help: thus it must be.
continued in it some time. You say, seven years together?
Pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body,
I will subscribe for thee, thou art both knave and fool.
with me, let not your worship think me the poor
Upon her landing, Antony sent to her,
With them, the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague,
Would thus have wrought you,--for the stone is mine--
I think my wife be honest and think she is not;
We have a maid in Mytilene, I durst wager,
If Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no;
without seeming so.
I have some of 'em in Limbo Patrum, and there they
Who, queasy with his insolence
But I believe, although I seem so loath,
Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth
No, I warrant your grace, you shall not entreat him
Take, then, this your companion by the hand,
'Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow apace:'
Before the always wind-obeying deep
Give this to the 'pothecary,
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
Exit
has got that same scurvy doting foolish young knave's
Ay, the bolting, but you must tarry the leavening.
Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard,
Exeunt
True, madam: he, of all the men that ever my foolish
Because it is a customary cross,
A glorious angel: then, if angels fight,
Now therefore would I have thee to my tutor--
This is the letter to your ladyship.
O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!
So call it: but it does fulfil my vow;
For 'tis a chronicle of day by day,
To some remote and desert place quite out
pillage and robbery. Now, if these men have
As thou my sometime daughter.
Infecting one another, yea, reciprocally--
To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.
The man i' the moon's too slow--till new-born chins
Arise, arise.
And I am come to seek that name in England;
Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs,
I will be patient.
go; vanish into air; away!
Thank you, good lord archbishop:
Though there the people had more absolute power,
O devil, devil!
Of all mad matches never was the like.
Away with him! and do as I command ye.
flow like the sea, being governed, as the sea is,
Thanks you for this great care: I stood i' the level
That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time
Or, at the least, in hers sepulchre thine.
I am innocent as you.'
That cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,
Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put
Come the three corners of the world in arms,
So the life that died with shame
Retires and kneels
What shall I do the where? where bide? how live?
Take some remembrance of us, as a tribute,
Whene'er we come to our account.
But welcome, sweet Clarence; my daughter shall be thine.
Who intercepts my expedition?
To NESTOR
An they have conspired together, I will not say you
reflection should hurt her.
That here was at the wrestling?
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven,
This ensign here of mine was turning back;
Gave't you the king?
Though in her cradle, yet now promises
Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman?
Thou canst not, son; it is impossible.
Not a word: if you have any thing to say to me,
Before we hear him, of some things of weight
And, now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me:
Yet is the kindness but particular;
Exeunt
Storm still
You spotted snakes with double tongue,
Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
Yet I'll move him
Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
spirit, what devil suggests this imagination? I
Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims,
SCENE II. Florence. The Widow's house.
Lies now even in the centre of this isle,
Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends,
Prithee, Apemantus, read me the superscription of
Argo, their thread of life is spun.
Is almost finish'd, and her epitaphs
When it proved otherwise?
And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor,
I one, my lord:
Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war:
ISABELLA is carried off guarded; and MARIANA comes forward
Go, call the people:
Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
It is Brabantio. General, be advised;
Against the senseless winds shalt grin in vain,
Fortune and I are friends: I do enjoy
What is thy soul of adoration?
Shall taste our mercy. Go and tell them so.
Too cruel any where.
And, as it were far off sound thou Lord Hastings,
Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world
son, my son! Tell me, thou villain, where is my son Lucentio?
with consolation; your old smock brings forth a new
Name of mercy, when was this, boy?
Exeunt Young LUCIUS, and Attendant
Sir, I thank you; by yea and no, I do.
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM
Know you the man?
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
As it were doomsday.
And in the wood, where often you and I
Sirrah, hast thou a knife? come, let me see it.
Enter GREMIO, and LUCENTIO disguised
What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you, avoid
My father, king of Spain, was reckon'd one
Read the indictment.
And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
Of that integrity which should become't,
O sweet Maria, empress of my love!
Fortune, that arrant whore,
make your wit bankrupt.
More whore, more mischief first; I have given you earnest.
that he is?
And I accept the combat willingly.
But reverence to your calling makes me modest.
The thane of Fife had a wife: where is she now?--
In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame;
a very good report o' the worm; but he that will
ne'er been born!
Take it, brave York. Now, soldiers, march away:
Back to the Duke of Gloucester, tell him so.
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
Thurio, give back, or else embrace thy death;
For honesty and decent carriage,
Upon these paltry, servile, abject drudges!
was born to do me good: for many a time, but for a
To courtship and such fair ostents of love
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
nights' watchings.
Tell him my fury shall abate, and I the crowns will take.
Even in the instant of repair and health,
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
A new hell in himself.
Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad;
'Tis none of mine.
Servilius! you are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well:
To lie in cold obstruction and to rot;
God be wi' you: let's meet as little as we can.
with a warrener.
That, from your first of difference and decay,
I'll note you in my book of memory,
That modesty may more betray our sense
As now they are, and making practised smiles,
The nonpareil of beauty!
A good soft pillow for that good white head
other hour, I should derive much from't; for,
Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking;
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
May turn by fortune from the weaker hand:
Solemn music
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
Ho, ho, confess'd it! hang'd it, have you not?
Camillo, sir; I spake with him; who now
Nor can I utter all our bitter grief,
And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse,
A mangled shadow: perchance to-morrow
Not so fair, boy, as well-favoured.
As doth a lion in a herd of neat;
That, in his secret doom, out of my blood
Be near at hand; I may miscarry in't.
Till he had done his sacrifice,
If so thou think'st, vex him with eager words.
Queen o'er myself: and even now, but now,
By being peevish? I tell thee what, Antonio--
This Armado is a Spaniard, that keeps here in court;
Re-enter second Servingman
And birth, that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.
For he himself is subject to his birth:
Shepherdess,
lend me thy sword.
Then should you be nothing but musical for you are
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
Or be ye not henceforth call'd my children.
Cannot defend our own doors from the dog,
Let it be so; and let Andronicus
Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
To set the exact wealth of all our states
He hath been out nine years, and away he shall
request in my stead. I beseech you, let his lack of
But it is your carbonadoed face.
And must needs taste his folly.
About the hour of eight, which he himself
Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet
I shall hereafter, my thrice gracious lord,
And now in plainness do confess to thee,
Exeunt all but PRINCE HENRY and FALSTAFF
Hath wrought this hellish mischief unawares,
Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;
Not I, my lord; sith true nobility
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Brother, the time and case requireth haste:
Strike not a stroke, but keep yourselves in breath:
As water in a sieve: give not me counsel;
As slept within the shadow of your power
I come from the worthy Achilles,--
Must needs be like my lord. If it be so,
To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord
I know the hand: in faith, 'tis a fair hand;
The other's peace: till then, blows, blood and death!
To show his sorrow, he'ld correct himself;
Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorry
is a region in Guiana, all gold and bounty. I will
'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise
Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing:
Our party may well meet a prouder foe.
Ay, at Philippi.
Nay, let me have't; I long.
SCENE V. The same. The senate-house. The Senate sitting.
Truly, sir, to see your wife. Is she at home?
Here, stand behind this bulk; straight will he come:
I got possession of Julietta's bed:
your pocket like a man after the old painting; and
What shipping and what lading's in our haven,
With spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch,
small like a woman.
beggar: who overcame he? the beggar. The
Enter LUCENTIO and his man TRANIO
Our pleasure his full fortune doth confine:
And, dying, mention it within their wills,
'Tis politic and safe to let him keep
swear by that that is not, you are not forsworn: no
I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen,
For mine own part,
Exit HUME
A Daniel come to judgment! yea, a Daniel!
Except some petty towns of no import:
Which shows me many more; and some I see
'Farewell, dear heart, since I must needs be gone.'
That you are welcome?
had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man
The first and second cause will not serve my turn;
And ruminate himself, shall he be worshipp'd
Valiant Lord Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury,
[To COMINIUS]                Lead you on.
This practise hath most shrewdly pass'd upon thee;
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.
Like one that comes here to besiege his court,
She strokes his cheek!
When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
The queen hath best success when you are absent.
Yon sometimes famous princes, like thyself,
What said he?
My lord?
against destiny. Ask me not, what I would be, if I
Are men endued with worthy qualities:
your good heart! I wished your venison better; it
thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is!
Here, at thy hand: be bold, and take thy stand.
'Faith, that he did--I know not what he did.
Bad news, by'r lady; seldom comes the better:
Here, uncle Exeter, fill this glove with crowns,
Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.
horses, by our habits and by every other
With blue of heaven's own tinct. But my design,
SCENE III. Warkworth castle
And turn the force of them upon thyself.
Good repose the while!
I speak not 'be thou true,' as fearing thee,
The red rose and the white are on his face,
brought me up, I likewise give her most humble
Break an hour's promise in love! He that will
Would God that any in this noble presence
The love I bore your queen--lo, fool again!--
Inflamed with Venus: never did young man fancy
And now I fear that fatal prophecy
Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected.
Be brief, lest that be process of thy kindness
Nay, but make haste; the better foot before.
I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal;
observe his construction of it. For this night, to
Neither, my lord.
wot of.' He makes me no more ado, but whips me out
And, good lieutenant, I think you think I love you.
And am I thus rewarded? 'tis not well, lords.
My good knave Eros, now thy captain is
I was advertised their great general slept,
Away, unpeaceable dog, or I'll spurn thee hence!
Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses,
And in the morning early shall my uncle
Mistress Thersites!
SCENE II. The same. Court of Pandarus' house.
And ne'er was Agamemnon's brother wrong'd
I would my husband would meet him in this shape: he
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:
Which you have cited, you must buy that peace
Fear no more the lightning flash,
Is here attending: her business looks in her
I never saw the like.
motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in
Re-enter MARK ANTONY
not with fifty of them, I am a bunch of radish: if
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
I fear you have done yourself some wrong: a word.
behalf of the maid; for I knew the young count to be
Whose health and royalty I pray for.
In France, amongst a fickle wavering nation:
And ill beseeming any common man,
To be so anger'd with another letter.
Not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh Jew,
To cut off those that have offended him.
You would not do me thus much injury.
Is that one of the four complexions?
She hath been fairer, madam, than she is:
Fetch in our wood and serves in offices
like brothers and worship me their lord.
We hate the prince of Tyre, and thou must kill him:
That our superfluous lackeys and our peasants,
A birth, and death?
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
I can no further crawl, no further go;
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
beats me, and I rail at him: O, worthy satisfaction!
Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.
Avoid then, fiend! what tell'st thou me of supping?
Thou wast born to conquer my country.
My lord, I will not.
As thus,--to study where I well may dine,
And do him right that, answering one foul wrong,
Was aptly fitted and naturally perform'd.
Why, bishop, is Norfolk dead?
If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,
yours, and therefore the gift the greater.
Your sense pursues not mine: either you are ignorant,
The fresh streams ran by her, and murmur'd her moans;
My lord, I love you;
To this last costly treaty, the interview,
Re-enter Citizens
as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
The chapel where they lie, and tears shed there
So.
Behind the globe, that lights the lower world,
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
Go tell the duke and 's wife I'ld speak with them,
That nothing-gift of differing multitudes--
and a stand: ruminates like an hostess that hath no
Is not this strange?
For what is wedlock forced but a hell,
And what confederacy have you with the traitors
Gold? yellow, glittering, precious gold? No, gods,
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS, and MUTIUS, with ALARBUS
I do beseech you--
Withal bring word if Hector will to-morrow
ANTIPHOLUS
names, your ages, of what having, breeding, and any
Your horror's pardon:
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
When men are unprepared and look not for it.
No, but not yet: may be he is not well:
It is his five senses: fie, what the ignorance is!
That it may enter Mowbray's waxen coat,
Exit
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
But yet a brain that leads my use of anger
man to teach her that wherein she delights, I will
Prithee, let her alone, and list to me.
Than that conferr'd on Goneril. Now, our joy,
The water which they beat to follow faster,
her
be a torment to her contempt. He on the ground, my
If you deny it, let the danger light
No more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive
Here sound an English march. Enter, and pass over at a distance, TALBOT and his forces
Between the acres of the rye,
hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait?
I have follow'd thee to this; but we do lance
O, beat away the busy meddling fiend
Enter KING LEAR, fantastically dressed with wild flowers
No point, with my knife.
Me and thy crying self.
For I will raise her statue in pure gold;
When did the tiger's young ones teach the dam?
Fellow, I know thee.
Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius
The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
And ours with thine, befall what fortune will.
Are punish'd with: the king must take it ill,
Go search like nobles, like noble subjects,
In him that did object the same to thee;
And, trust me, I was coming to you. You look very
shepherd, which stands by like a weather-bitten
Leontes opening his free arms and weeping
And let my woes frown on the upper hand.
Enter CLEOPATRA and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Wherein thyself shalt highly be employ'd.
Why did you throw your wedded lady from you?
To feast and sport us at thy father's house.
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
The back is sacrifice to the load. They say
The blood I drop is rather physical
And snatch 'em up, as we take hares, behind:
You had of her pure honour gains or loses
We sent to thee, to give thy rages balm,
But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
Exeunt
ANTIPHOLUS
Delay leads impotent and snail-paced beggary
Strange things I have in head, that will to hand;
And youthful still! in your doublet and hose this
Her shoulder is with child.
A sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats,
Sirrah, come hither: 'tis no time to jest,
and friend Simple by your name, which way have you
Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother:
Nor sound his quillets shrilly: hoar the flamen,
Your folly.
Yes, being kept together and put to use.
Bardolph!
Help me, my women,--we must draw thee up:
In your protectorship you did devise
Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
Now, what's the business?
in single oppositions: yet this imperceiverant
He dreads his wife.
And thou shalt hunt a lion, that will fly
maintain his argument as well as any military man in
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
Exeunt
at me; and he that hits me, let him be clapped on
That, with his sons, a terror to our foes,
Are not you grieved that Arthur is his prisoner?
Prince Dauphin, you shall stay with us in Rouen.
Was in the wreck; and, but he's something stain'd
Exit
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
court, the women so besiege us? Bless me, what a
Was rightful heir unto the English crown
In the cauldron boil and bake;
Ay, and perversely she persevers so.
Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
I promised your presence and the chain;
Where wouldst thou send it?
To FABIAN
Herself poised with herself in either eye:
Our project's life this shape of sense assumes:
How now, blown Jack! how now, quilt!
Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine
Cry fie upon my grave!
As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd
To be imprison'd in the viewless winds,
Not swear it, now I am a gentleman? Let boors and
The luce is the fresh fish; the salt fish is an old coat.
And when came you to serve our Roman captive?
For you'll prove perjured if you make me stay.
Which, unreversed, stands in effectual force--
him, thinkest thou? And what has he sent now?
That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
lady in the fountain of our love?
She should this Angelo have married; was affianced
direction. Be gone, and come when you are called.
Sure, we thank you.
You shall ask pardon of his majesty.
either get her ravished, or be rid of her. When she
And after this let Caesar seat him sure;
And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty
Well, the best is, she hath no teeth to bite.
Ay, and Hector's a greyhound.
Now am I seated as my soul delights,
Let me alone.
Without the privity o' the king, to appoint
But, soft! what day is this?
out' says the third: 'Hang him up' says the duke.
Aside
I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
But here an angel in a golden bed
Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of York.
What seest thou there? King Henry's diadem,
acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them
We cannot take this for answer, sir.
His serious considering.
And I a heavy interim shall support
Boblibindo chicurmurco.
I thank you, honest lord. Remember me
Toward the king first, then his laws, in filling
Now, my dearest queen,--
Ere they shall make us weep: we'll see 'em starve
The news of thy success; and when he reads
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD with two Servants
And hardening of my brows.
ACT IV
Marshal, demand of yonder champion
O my sweet lady, pardon.
Were by his side; sometime he calls the king,
And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come
When man's worst sin is, he does too much good!
I am amazed, and know not what to say.
Exit
And will revolt from me to succor him.
I think upon't, I think: I smell't: O villany!--
cuckoo. Ver, begin.
Here in our presence! dare you be so bold?
And art confederate with a damned pack
fish for she would not exchange flesh with one that
Tom will make them weep and wail:
Should reign among professors of one faith.
In Russian habit: here they stay'd an hour,
for no man's leisure, sleep when I am drowsy and
coming down this walk: he has been yonder i' the
Ay, that a' did.
I have done enough; a lower place, note well,
When right with right wars who shall be most right!
Only in this disguise I think't no sin
for mercy and still run and roared, as ever I heard
If it be honour in your wars to seem
Under your sentence?
What you as from your father shall deliver,
Some other is more fit.
if you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with
And what he will, I humbly yield unto.
Darest thou, thou little better thing than earth,
Exeunt all but EXETER
Upon this hope, that you shall give me reasons
Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure
But since he's gone, the king's seas must please:
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Depress'd he is already, and deposed
Will you know them then?
By heaven, she is a dainty one. Sweetheart,
Please you, I'll meet with you upon the mart
When as the one is wounded with the bait,
and the rams together and to offer to get your
Why, you say well. But I have another messenger to
Which we have noted in you to your kin,
On our side like the token'd pestilence,
he's a fool, he's a great quarreller: and but that
Ran mad through sorrow: that made me to fear;
praised: but reserve still to give, lest your
To the Fool
I keep a servant fee'd. I will to-morrow,
Upon remainder of a dear account,
of love. Leander, he would have lived many a fair
Have blown me full of maggot ostentation:
An if my father please, I am content.
The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings?
match. O, if men were to be saved by merit, what
And I.
March afar off
That I should wish for thee to help me curse
Then after to her father will I break;
Here, my lord.
hearkened to their father's testament. There was a
For the commodity that strangers have
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Marry, when thou darest.
Why, uncle, what's the matter?
SCENE I. The Forest of Arden.
It hath in solemn synods been decreed
Neither: he took this place for sanctuary,
Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
Peace, for shame, peace!
Near twenty years ago, in Genoa,
And otherwise will Henry ne'er presume.
in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty
How to deny them, who to advance and who
My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
The meered question: 'twas a shame no less
But to himself so secret and so close,
The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart;
And what is in't, the never-surfeited sea
When the king knows my truth.
To undeck the pompous body of a king;
I have no more sons of the royal blood
Absolved him with an axe.
We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law;
And I with tears do wash the blood away.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
By this you shall not know,
You jack'nape, give-a this letter to Sir Hugh; by
Give me that boy, and I will go with thee.
To keep our great Saint George's feast withal:
Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher: so,
These roguing thieves serve the great pirate Valdes;
Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban,
If you do find me foul in her report,
habit, but your words show you a madman. Why, sir,
Approved warriors, and my faithful friends,
But that we enter, as into our dukedom?
Weak masters though ye be, I have bedimm'd
What, can the devil speak true?
I would, while it was smiling in my face,
And why not as the lion?
that's in them. Is the senate possessed of this?
He is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows
She hath been then more fear'd than harm'd, my liege;
Have hired me to undermine the duchess
So you shall;
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
As snow in harvest. Thou deceivest thyself:
thought on,
First, as you know, my house within the city
And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.
I warrant, good creature, wheresoe'er she is,
Silver'd in the moon's eclipse,
rivelled fee-simple of the tetter, take and take
And greatness of his place be grief to us,
of 'we three'?
To cross me from the golden time I look for!
Let's levy men, and beat him back again.
Or go to bed now, being two hours to day:
She's making her ready, she'll come straight: you
Her presence would have interrupted much:
Beside that of the jewel house, is made master
To this great stage of fools: this a good block;
crushest the snake!' that is the way to make an
Following,--her womb then rich with my young squire,--
Should raise so great a power without his leave,
Therefore, Caveto be thy counsellor.
A labour saved!
And chop away that factious pate of his.
Dromio; swore I was assured to her; told me what
Alarum and retreat. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers
Re-enter KATHARINA, with BIANCA and Widow
A tower'd citadel, a pendent rock,
For my example.
An you should do it too terribly, you would fright
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
You have but jested with me all this while:
For this down-trodden equity, we tread
A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
And hither come in't: go, hence with diligence!
Why, I am past my gamut long ago.
owl and the cuckoo? It should have followed in the
This was a judgment on me; that my kingdom,
Enter Officers
As it hath fated her to be my motive
Arthur of Bretagne England's king and yours.
That's true; make no question of that. 'Two and
Falstaff, and laugh at Page. I will about it;
Exeunt DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO
Stand back, thou manifest conspirator,
'Twas very strange.
Do outrage and displeasure to himself?
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
I have already.
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad:--
This slave-like habit? and these looks of care?
such a foolish song. God be wi' you; and God mend
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
A friend.
O, God ye god-den.
keep my hand dry. But what's your jest?
Hue and cry, villain, go! Assist me, knight. I am
To attend the emperor's person carefully:
And fawn on rage with base humility,
Hover about me with your airy wings
For me to try how: all I know of it
cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse
For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent
another to Page's wife, who even now gave me good
Let what is meet be said it must be meet,
If put upon you, make the judgment good
gluttonous maws.
How then? sick?
Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
By the compulsion of their ordinance
BISHOP
And I will look on both indifferently,
Did he receive you well?
Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:
He said that Proteus your son was meet,
And coops from other lands her islanders,
And follows close the rigour of the statute,
Should by the cormorant belly be restrain'd,
will. Go, go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue;
That ever holds: who riseth from a feast
Farewell, and thanks.
Who did hoot him out o' the city.
That perish'd by the way: thoughts are no subjects;
For they shall yet belie thy happy years,
All comfort that the dark night can afford
And, as he stoop'd again to take it up,
Under the title of John Mortimer.
SCENE I. The same.
Please you, madam
Till when,--the which I hope shall ne'er be seen,--
First hang the child, that he may see it sprawl;
God's mother deigned to appear to me
Burns with revenging fire; whose hopeful colours
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
Cold friends to Richard: what do they in the north,
And cries aloud 'Tarry, dear cousin Suffolk!
Conceit, my comfort and my injury.
Which now in some slight measure it will pay,
And thrown into neglect the pompous court?
I speak not this in estimation,
If she deny, Lord Hastings, go with him,
His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle,
What lady-she her lord. You'll stay?
Upon her skinny lips: you should be women,
Good morrow, gentle mistress: where away?
Walk with Leonine; the air is quick there,
What say you to a letter from your friends
Out, ye rogue! Play out the play: I have much to
Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd
Shylock, although I neither lend nor borrow
'twas so indeed.
time shall serve, there shall be smiles; but that
The practise and the purpose of the king:
These ducats pawn I for my father here.
If you we re civil and knew courtesy,
Besides himself, are all the English peers,
The tenth of August last this dreadful lord,
So say I	methinks you are sadder.
Than had I seen the vaulty top of heaven
I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet:
example, that so terrible shows in the wreck of
'Hic ibat,' as I told you before, 'Simois,' I am
This is his second fit; he had one yesterday.
that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn
sent your worship a morning's draught of sack.
I blush to think upon this ignomy.
Their liberties; make them of no more voice
Therefore we'll knock.
O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
I'll live by Nym, and Nym shall live by me;
That's not an office for a friend, my lord.
Who else must be let blood, who else is rank:
Has paid his men their wages: he ne'er drinks,
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
O, that the gods
A softly-sprighted man, is he not?
Enter the KING, NORTHUMBERLAND, WORCESTER, HOTSPUR, SIR WALTER BLUNT, with others
yet, for aught I see, they are as sick that surfeit
If he be gone, he'll make his grave a bed;
Julia I lose and Valentine I lose:
the meat cool ere we can agree upon the first place:
thee for pity.
Enter EDMUND, with his rapier drawn, CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
DON
That stands on tricks when I am undisposed:
Looks in a glass, that shows what future evils,
This stain upon her?
not worthy to touch Fortune's fingers. Farewell.
My riches to the earth from whence they came;
Out on her, hilding!
shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by
More homely than thy state. For thee, fond boy,
So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that:
By shameful murder of a guiltless king
And this same progeny of evils comes
Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace;
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
Though many dearer, in this bloody fray.
Divide me like a bribe buck, each a haunch: I will
You will be there, I know.
Faith, I have been a truant in the law,
Will force him think I have pick'd the lock and ta'en
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron,
I remember.
you to this?
You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom
If ever I return to you again,
How far 'tis thither. If one of mean affairs
If we imagine no worse of them than they of
What say'st thou to her?
our king the good Simonides.
Clock strikes
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
Exit an Attendant
We will try it.
Their fears of hostile strokes, their aches, losses,
My legs are longer though, to run away.
As lamely as their manners. Lust and liberty
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
sound, upon my life, amounts not to fifteen thousand
My unprovided body, lanced mine arm:
Wave thus, to express his disposition,
Have uncheque'd theft. Love not yourselves: away,
Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence!
My conscience tells me he is lawful king.
The tender leaves of hopes; to-morrow blossoms,
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
Take thou my soldiers, prisoners, patrimony;
deliver a supplication?
thank my good father, I am able to maintain it.
Thou hast described
Look, and thou shalt see.
What a blow was there given!
He hath whipp'd with rods; dares me to personal combat,
door. Follow my heels, Rugby.
For we are peremptory to dispatch
By all their influences, you may as well
stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of
I have not deserved it.
It tutors nature: artificial strife
'Tis he. God and Saint Stephen give you good den:
I never kill'd a mouse, nor hurt a fly:
Do you as I do in these dangerous days:
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
Here is such patchery, such juggling and such
And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
Which, howsoever rude exteriorly,
folly! I am afraid this great lubber, the world,
So I, admiring of his qualities:
Look, where he comes!
Of cruel war: sixty and nine, that wore
And tarry for the comfort of the day.
Come, let's away. When, Caius, Rome is thine,
What, do you shake at that?
That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
And moe corrivals and dear men
Truly, fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it
If I do vow a friendship, I'll perform it
that never prayed before, how I cried, how the
Our wish, which side should win: for either thou
And disinherited thine only son.
Exeunt
Which I hope well is not enrolled there;
For the capacity of my ruder powers:
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join
sword so hacked?
Of it own colour too.
And for achievement offer us his ransom.
Your troops of horsemen with his bands of foot;
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
It toucheth you, my lord, as much as me.
Did call me brother.
I have a motion much imports your good;
Such a fellow is not to be talked withal. Away with
Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes!
In food, in sport and life-preserving rest
Will you cover then, sir?
in Greek, Latin, and other languages, as the other
his eye; talks like a knell, and his hum is a
Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
And worthless Valentine shall be forgot.
Come, fool, come; try me in thy paper.
Have I not heard these islanders shout out
I do not know what witchcraft's in him, but
By this leek, I will most horribly revenge: I eat
Then you are a better than the king.
If it prove lawful prize, he's made for ever.
Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
Taurus! That's sides and heart.
When you shall these unlucky deeds relate,
And he shall feel mine edge.
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
May it please your highness to resolve me now;
The mercy that was quick in us but late,
I'll let his humours blood.
O, matter and impertinency mix'd! Reason in madness!
Some spirit put this paper in the packet,
And, let your father make her the assurance,
The pauses that he makes.
Of Sicily, Sardinia; and I must
Well, sir, as you guess, as you guess?
Exit, with his soldiers
What have you lost by losing of this day?
Renowned Lucius, from our troops I stray'd
We have frighted with our trumpets; so, 'tis clear,
Direct me, if it be your will,
The due of honour in no point omit.
This do and do it kindly, gentle sirs:
I must prevent thee, Cimber.
You wager'd on your angling; when your diver
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls;
Never any did so, though very many have been beside
Exit
Have done to this.
and disheartens him; makes him stand to, and
What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
with you. Your father and my uncle hath made
But, for my will, my will is your good will
That princely novice, was struck dead by thee?
And yet the steer, the heifer and the calf
True! O God!
'Faith, I intend so.
I told you, sir, my daughter is disposed of.
ACT IV
For who digs hills because they do aspire
What are you here that cry so grievously?
Too terrible for the ear: the times have been,
SCENE XIII. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
To raise my fortunes. Thou old unhappy traitor,
Arming to answer in a night alarm.'
Bold as an oracle, and sets Thersites,
Will bring me to consider that which may
Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
soldest him on Good-Friday last for a cup of Madeira
Where are those--Sit down, Kate, and welcome.--
other circumstance. Good morrow; for, as I take it,
And there's an oath of credit.
Was ever king that joy'd an earthly throne,
Then thou liest: look in thy last work, where thou
Have been as bondmen to thy sovereignty.
ALL SERVING-MEN	Here, here, sir; here, sir.
Madam, what should I do?
That to your wanting may be minister'd.
I speak no more than truth.
You are deceived: for what I mean to do
Must be content to think you old, and so--
Good day to both of you.
Take not away the taper, leave it burning;
You may to me: and 'tis most meet you should.
Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them
First told me thou wast mad; then camest in smiling,
To kill, I grant, is sin's extremest gust;
Enter LUCIUS
The precious image of our dear Redeemer,
When he to madding Dido would unfold
What shall we do?
ACT V
Farewell, my lords: we look for you to-morrow.
Not having the power to do the good it would,
To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
If I do not usurp myself, I am.
Enter a Lady
And perish ye, with your audacious prate!
Justice, most sacred duke, against the abbess!
Knock him down there.
Together working with thy jealousies,
'	Then, howso'er thou speak'st, 'mong other things
Scare Troy out of itself. But, march away:
By Dromio; but I think he brought it not.
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are:
Some mumble-news, some trencher-knight, some Dick,
hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes
Good fortune and the favour of the king
My ill suspicion. This is your son-in-law,
Sir,
And the detention of long-since-due debts,
But buffets better than a fist of France:
Thy soldier, servant; making peace or war
Knock at his study, where, they say, he keeps,
So runs against all reason.
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
Wherefore? tell true.
come within my doors! Marry, hang you! She's born
Dost it enforcedly; thou'ldst courtier be again,
Would it be better, madam, than I am?
Yea, the same.
No more, thou thunder-master, show
How, with my honour, I may undertake
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
That Cassio's not alive.
This whole earth may be bored and that the moon
DUMB SHOW.
Gives signal, of a goodly day to-morrow.
[Reads]
Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
Why,
Re-enter two of the Citizens
Now climbeth Tamora Olympus' top,
A sick man's appetite, who desires most that
The wronged heirs of York do pray for thee
To Ireland, I; our separated fortune
Of any thing the image tell me that
Knowing nought, like dogs, but following.
Doth play the trumpet to his purposes,
By Caius Marcius Coriolanus, whom
Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter--
And Cassio high in oath; which till to-night
Our purpose may hold there.
As in revenge of thy ingratitude,
And here I take the unfeigned oath,
To shallow--
Well, honour is the subject of my story.
[Aside]  This is his pardon, purchased by such sin
Angering itself and others.--Bless thee, master!
And bid his ears a little while be deaf,
And tell me, in the modesty of honour,
[Reading]  'To my Lord Protector!' Are your
I pray you, speak with me: you shall at least
nor reason?
Inter their bodies as becomes their births:
your daughter.
Must not be shed by such a jaded groom.
Is there no voice more worthy than my own
Even now about it! I will pardon you.
Therefore, my lord, it highly us concerns
When we are old as you? when we shall hear
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life.
I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in
Then, Joan, discover thine infirmity,
Exit
But O! the devil'--there the villain stopp'd
Within
A sail, a sail!
Cry, Trojans, cry! a Helen and a woe:
The hopeless word of 'never to return'
Or of the deadly seven, it is the least.
For he hath been five thousand years a boy.
Gods and goddesses,
This blot that they object against your house
That
O, in a tomb where never scandal slept,
I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
I would it were no worse.
himself for your succession in Denmark?
How say you by this change?
vessel makes the greatest sound.' Bardolph and Nym
I should not urge it half so faithfully.
the young man, he would have been horn-mad.
To see him pass on to the Capitol.
'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
Than in our priest-like fasts: therefore I'll watch him
It was Alencon that enjoy'd my love.
Call Agamemnon head and general.
Each way, to better yours.
him here? Did he ask for me? Where remains he?
And to my fortunes and the people's favor
As 'twere retail'd to all posterity,
My gown.
Margaret my name, and daughter to a king,
country's friend,
Thou hast sworn it more to me:
The fee-simple! O simple!
Take leave and part; for you must part forthwith.
Which towards you are most gentle, you shall find
To-morrow: now, if you could wear a mind
Soft, sir! one word more.
Upon entreaty have a present aims;
No, Mortimer is not there.
Marry, at my house. Trust me, I think 'tis almost
Enter ANGELO and ESCALUS
And let the angel whom thou still hast served
Make thy words faith'd? No: what I should deny,--
come. I tell you for good vill: adieu.
'GONERIL.'
And undertake the teaching of the maid:
And loves to live i' the sun,
Of the sea-water green, sir.
But in what nature?
Never to wash his face, nor cut his hairs:
Yields to the theft: had he been where he thought,
the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of
And from this testimony of your own sex,--
That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear;
This infant warrior, in his enterprises
Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meetest the fellow.
The maid hath given consent to go with him.
obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering; but
What, amazed
Lord George your brother, Norfolk and myself,
Never to England shall he bear his life;
Plantagenet.
Enter TRANIO and HORTENSIO
What dost thou then in prison?
Where is Duncan's body?
is it a spare life, look you, it fits my humour well;
must we all march?
Here in the prison. Do me the common right
Every tithe soul, 'mongst many thousand dismes,
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother
Exeunt Musicians
acknowledge itself hereafter, it may compel him to
When they should serve their sovereign in the west?
for the goose carries not the fox. It is well:
They mock thee, Clifford: swear as thou wast wont.
As I stood here below, methought his eyes
to me; for indeed three such antics do not amount to
Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
Then let the worst unheard fall on your bead.
Loather a hundred times to part than die.
go between you both; and in any case have a
Enter Chamberlain
enemies; go to, then, I ask but this: can he that
And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
That they should harbour where their lord would be.'
Out of this fearful country!
First Serving-man	Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
O, 'tis a burthen, Cromwell, 'tis a burthen
As then the messenger,--
And you may marvel why I obscured myself,
But cannot make my heart consent to take
This kingdom, this confine of blood and breath,
'Twas her two sons that murder'd Bassianus;
No! why art thou then exasperate, thou idle
I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you have
Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath
Be an arch-villain; believe it, royal prince:
This fellow here, with envious carping tongue,
That it engluts and swallows other sorrows
How this lord is follow'd!
The court of Rome commanding, you, my lord
in his pew; set ratsbane by his porridge; made film
Proceed by swallowing that, for he believes
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
Good madam, patience.
How I have ever loved the life removed
the Garter.
Till one can do no more.
To this unworthy husband of his wife;
There's his period,
If not, I'll use the advantage of my power
As if Time were in debt! how fondly dost thou reason!
Whom with a crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,
And send it to the king: he for the same
And makes it fearful and degenerate;
Ceremony was but devised at first
O god of love! I know he doth deserve
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
perfectly I love her; and that is good English.
Her father loved me; oft invited me;
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
And then came Pyramus.
Where should they be set else? he were a brave
He had not my virginity.
The gods preserve ye!
I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
To search you out.
Advance our half-faced sun, striving to shine,
Exit
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
But was a race of heaven: they are so still,
'Item: She can knit.'
If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to love?
They are; and Bolingbroke
Were liken'd oft to kingly sepulchres;
He that had wit would think that I had none,
They'll give him death by inches.
Exeunt
Pattern in himself to know,
thee: the money is paid back again.
What black magician conjures up this fiend,
fiend hath led through fire and through flame, and
I'll try you on the shore.
Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you
But those that sought it I could wish more Christians:
Is good without a name. Vileness is so:
Where be these warders, that they wait not here?
now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass: so that by
'Tis true, 'tis true; witness my knife's sharp point.
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
Away before: conduct me to the king;
Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice,
TIMON comes from his cave, behind
Whose dismal tune bereft my vital powers;
It is determined, not concluded yet:
They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes
What? thou liest! Sir Alice Ford! These knights
Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
In happy time.
For in the shade of death I shall find joy;
Therefore, away with her, and use her as you will,
To their approvers they are people such
Ay, indeed, sir.
Best to be served: whilst he stood up and spoke,
Enter GREMIO, LUCENTIO in the habit of a mean man;  PETRUCHIO, with HORTENSIO as a musician; and TRANIO, with BIONDELLO bearing a lute and books
Enter SAMPSON and GREGORY, of the house of Capulet, armed with swords and bucklers
O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
And formless ruin of oblivion;
Nourish the cause of his awaking: I
And let the unscarr'd braggarts of the war
Come, my captain knows you not.
Most worthy prince, as yours, is true Guiderius:
Enter KING HENRY, PRINCE HENRY, Lord John of  LANCASTER, EARL OF WESTMORELAND, SIR WALTER BLUNT, and FALSTAFF
In their best fortunes strong; but want will perjure
Not so. Adieu.
Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem,
And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
As curst, as harsh and horrible to hear,
To call a present court of parliament.
Look, on the sheets his hair you see, is sticking;
Enter a Messenger
'Tis hoped his sickness is discharged.
How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
My gracious lord, here in the parliament
Upbraid's with our distress. But, sure, if you
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.
That glues my lips and will not let me speak.
To lean upon: but it would warm his spirits,
To let him breathe between the heavens and earth,
Where our desire is got without content:
Lo, in these windows that let forth thy life,
Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both:
Country call'd his! and you his mistress, only
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
Out of his rags! Here's a large mouth, indeed,
Where heart doth hop:
strange things from Rome; all tending to the good of
Although assail'd with fortune fierce and keen,
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty,
True,
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
being a tall fellow, trust me not. Hark! the kings
And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.
If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle
And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
Zenelophon; and he it was that might rightly say,
My soul and body on the action both!
They have all been touch'd and found base metal, for
This news was brought to Richard but even now:
Stand you awhile apart;
I fear no uncles dead.
How didst thou know 'twas she? O she deceives me
The royal tree hath left us royal fruit,
coziers' catches without any mitigation or remorse
Was this inserted to make interest good?
From Fife, great king;
Let us to France; like horse-leeches, my boys,
Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
But in his motion like an angel sings,
Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
And lead these testy rivals so astray
And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'
The issue is embracement: Ajax, farewell.
As if the vicar meant to cozen him.
Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.
Fall on their heads like dew! for they are worthy
My liege, I did deny no prisoners.
Wretches so quake: they kneel, they kiss the earth;
hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding queen
Throng our large temples with the shows of peace,
As I have set them down. If I do send, dispatch
Whispers
I am a gentleman.' I'll be sworn thou art;
horse upon our own wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship were
and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
quarrel on the seventh cause?
For he is footed in this land already.
son-in-law's house, Sir James Cromer, and strike off
Am I made?
That he shall render every glory up,
damnation: but this is not so: the king is not
Which I'll lay down.
That, sure, they've worn out Christendom.
Intelligence is given where you are hid;
You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here;
I pluck this pale and maiden blossom here,
I know not, madam: 'tis too bad, too bad.
Know'st thou not any whom corrupting gold
conscionable than in putting on the mere form of
So study evermore is overshot:
To strut before a wanton ambling nymph;
What I can do can do no hurt to try,
Ay, but the clerk that never means to do it,
O,--sixpence, that I had o' Wednesday last
Is as a fury to torment my soul;
You are deceived, my substance is not here;
Help, son! help, Signior Baptista!
I thank you.--By yond bush?--Pray, how far thither?
Bianca, stand aside. Poor girl! she weeps.
What did you whisper in your lady's ear?
I will not say so, for fear I should be faced out of
And occupations perish!
Do with their death bury their parents' strife.
And threw her sun-expelling mask away,
As to be call'd but viceroy of the whole?
I have done penance for contemning Love,
By heaven, all dry-beaten with pure scoff!
My soul doth tell me Hero is belied;
an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
deceived in Angelo! If ever he return and I can
Nay, now thou goest from Fortune's office to
These eyes, these brows, were moulded out of his:
Be curses to yourselves? You should have said
And bids me speak of nothing but despair.
Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicked varlet! the
O, my lord,
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
yet I wrong him to call him poor; they say the
That by a pace goes backward, with a purpose
I beseech your highness, do not marry me to a whore.
From me do back receive the flour of all,
No Rome of safety for Octavius yet;
Plucking the entrails of an offering forth,
If you are arm'd to do as sworn to do,
And mock him home to Windsor.
duke's wrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
Yes, sir, I shall.
SCENE I:
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
Joy had the like conception in our eyes
With sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence:
E'en at hand, alighted by this; and therefore be
opened, and you find so much blood in his liver as
Forego the easier.
A proper squire! And who, and who? which way looks
Hear me, my love: be thou but true of heart,--
Yes, presently:
month's length a-piece, by an abstract of success:
O Silius, Silius,
Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king:
You have done our pleasures much grace, fair ladies,
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
Page; to know if it were my master's fortune to
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and
He will chastise me.
That you do think you are not what you are.
I love thee well, in that thou likest it not.
Come then, away; let's ha' no more ado.
Here none but soldiers and Rome's servitors
Speak it here:
Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods,
Yet whether you accept our suit or no,
To wake and wage a danger profitless.
Or else by him my love deny,
should lodge them with this sign.
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, with a letter
Did, as heir general, being descended
Friend, look to 't.
Her advocate to the loud'st. We do not know
Of favour from myself and all our house;
Which we call 'mollis aer;' and 'mollis aer'
and squabble? swagger? swear? and discourse
Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
of him: how he jets under his advanced plumes!
Killing swine.
treacherous,
That we may do it still without accompt.
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?
My heart is not confederate with my hand.
That noble minds keep ever with their likes;
Ay, but that fool knows not himself.
Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
As motion and long-during action tires
So like a waking. To me comes a creature,
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
That rises like the issue of a king,
Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit,
And, for they cannot, die in their own pride.
Tell me for truth the measure of his love
Traitors, away! he rests not in this tomb:
Than to entreaty.
I would not wish a drop of Trojan blood
Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright
And foul imaginary eyes of blood
Let gentleness my strong enforcement be:
Grounded upon no other argument
and old Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of
Is full of virtue, bounty, worth and qualities
No natural exhalation in the sky,
How say you sir? Can you deny all this?
Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly!
With Roman swords, and my report was once
Sir Robert's son! Ay, thou unreverend boy,
He that helps him take all my outward worth.
I have known my husband; yet my husband
O heavens, can you hear a good man groan,
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
So will it, madam till I lie with you.
True ornaments to know a holy man.
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Our doubts are traitors
And rob me of a happy mother's name?
To some Attendants
My rapier in his bosom and withal
For what's more miserable than discontent?
I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
there's none abroad so wholesome as that you vent.
O, the father, how he holds his countenance!
But puts it off to a compell'd restraint;
pleased, let them come in; but quickly now.
You know me well, and herein spend but time
But not for joy; not joy. This entertainment
Where but even now with strange and several noises
had rather it would please you I might be whipt.
Behold our human actions, as they do,
Study me how to please the eye indeed
He or she, cuckold or cuckold-maker,
Thou shouldst have better pleased me with this deed,
Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake.
But that my heart's on future mischief set,
In her forehead; armed and reverted, making war
Take him away: he knows I know him well.
I will seem friendly, as thou hast advised me.
Tut, Lucius, this was but a deed of charity
I hope my noble lord esteems me honest.
This devil here shall be my substitute;
That you know well: something it is I would,
Could never be her mild companion.
Where I must take like seat unto my fortune,
Eight and nine, sir.
world needs to fear no colours.
The scars upon your honour, therefore, he
For I repent me that the duke is slain.
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive:
Who doth molest my contemplation?
your straight strossers.
Make tender of to thy true worthiness:
Above their quantity.
Publius, come hither, Caius, and Valentine!
This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl
A time, methinks, too short
Whose hand soever lanced their tender hearts,
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?
If your lordship find him not a hilding, hold me no
Look ye yonder, niece; is't not a gallant man too,
Are you so fond of your young prince as we
That sleeve is mine that he'll bear on his helm;
And I'll beweep these comforts, worthy senators.
For the supply and profit of our hope,
The strain of strutting chanticleer
Most grossly, by his own!
To DUMAIN
O'erglanced the articles: pleaseth your grace
We'll hold a feast in great solemnity.
in the pie, for then the man's date's out.
Sir, pardon me in what I have to say:
And drave great Mars to faction.
Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
Which their own conscience seal'd them--laying by
That with the plume: 'tis a most gallant fellow.
In my bedchamber.
Himself! Alas, poor Troilus! I would he were.
Help me hence, ho!
But mine is all as hungry as the sea,
'Item: She is slow in words.'
And after all this fearful homage done,
what I am: I will now take the lecher; he is at my
His reasons with his body.
but the wood, no assembly but horn-beasts. But what
Honour, health, and compassion to the senate!
His dews fall every where.
Against the general enemy Ottoman.
A closet lock and key of villanous secrets
See, see the pining malady of France;
With the plebeians swarming at their heels,
Well.
We shall have him here to-morrow with his best ruff on.
Let me have speech with you.
And will not trust one of her malice with
been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her
Then must your brother die.
Pardon me, noble lord:
So sure I swear to get the town or die.
Which falls into mine ears as profitless
Villain, thou know'st the law of arms is such
Than those I shed for him. What was he like?
are matched with as few good deeds; for a' never
I'll show you how to observe a strange event.
Ay, very well, my lord.
Even he, Biondello.
Never, but once.
O, ay; and pities them.
Which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers
SCENE VIII. Before KING HENRY'S pavilion.
Of which, my lord, your honour is the last.
What is your will?
Ay, to the proof; as mountains are for winds,
false to him: do not you know of him, but yet go
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
thing. A plague of all cowards, I say still.
To save our heads by raising of a head;
To the smothering of the sense--how far it is
Fiery? what quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester,
To shoot another arrow that self way
Enter the Messenger as before
have run some ground. My master's a very Jew: give
Expect even here, where is a kingly patient:
As you intended well.
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
Edward the Duke of York, the Earl of Suffolk,
And by a stranger!--No, he hath enjoyed her:
Sir, 'tis the governor of Mytilene,
This is the latest parle we will admit;
Exit EDGAR
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
Now, all my joy
Pray, let us follow 'em.
If he were living, I would try him yet.
O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound,
I was contracted to them both: all three
The severals and unhidden passages
Or brew it to a weak and colder palate,
That many have their giddy brains knock'd out:
Alas, sir!
youth in us; we are the sons of women, Master Page.
That drug-damn'd Italy hath out-craftied him,
And be a boy right out.
Which was not half so beautiful and kind;
Importeth thee to know, this bears.
And make distinct the very breach whereout
You think me an impostor: no, good faith;
I too: he does it with a better grace, but I do it
Faith, how easy?
The good-years shall devour them, flesh and fell,
The innocent mansion of my love, my heart;
[Within]  If thy name be call'd Luce--Luce, thou hast
How I have loved my king and commonweal:
Danger and disobedience in thine eye:
So many courses of the sun enthroned,
bringings-forth, and he shall appear to the
Nay, he is your brother by the surer side,
See him pluck Aufidius down by the hair,
The duchess, by his subornation,
This is a brave fellow.
A rarer spirit never
And instantly return with me again,
To do him justice and revenge on you.
No; he doth but mistake the truth totally.
Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?
such dishes; they are not China dishes, but very
Or if of grief, being altogether had,
Nor would your noble mother for much more
I will myself into the pulpit first,
Of monstrous lust the due and just reward:
My fortunes--parentage--good parentage--
Which she hath praised him with above compare
What dreadful noise of waters in mine ears!
To live a barren sister all your life,
Near to her close and consecrated bower,
And take my heart with thee.
What now ensues, to the judgment of your eye
O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here?
And here pronounce free pardon to them all
With all licentious measure, making your wills
And, in good time! now will we break with him.
Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other.
the trick of singularity: she thus advises thee
So many years ere I shall shear the fleece:
Exit
Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.
I will not.
One business does command us all; for mine Is money.
to question them further, they made themselves air,
York, I commend this kind submission:
Under the sweet shade of your government.
If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
A storm or robbery, call it what you will,
All that is virtuous, save what thou dislikest,
Why, Jessica, I say!
Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.
Away, away! no time shall be omitted
Have lopp'd and hew'd and made thy body bare
My lord protector's hawks do tower so well;
Our lands, our lives and all are Bolingbroke's,
Thou losest here, a better where to find.
As hating thee, are rising up in arms:
Than with an old one dying.
should be lamed with reasons and the other mad
And sleep in dull cold marble, where no mention
a fair pair of heels and run from it?
Almost in Christendom: shortly, I believe,
Tush, I will stir about,
I will bestow him, and will answer well
Makes vow before his uncle never more
'cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum:' to the
For every word you speak in his behalf
I do repent it from my very soul.
More noble than that runagate to your bed,
Farewell: I'll grow a talker for this gear.
You will return and sojourn with my sister,
I take my leave before I have begun,
Nay, keep your place.
Yes, faith, sir.
She an attending star, scarce seen a light.
What is 't o'clock?
O Publius, is not this a heavy case,
Is nought but bitterness. Now, Roderigo,
What, you egg!
Are they not but in Britain? I' the world's volume
Here come the lords.
Not trusting to this halting legate here,
No, I pray you;
Which a dismiss'd offence would after gall;
Think you so, sir?
Since nature cannot choose his origin--
As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant;
[Aside]
To PHEBE
Stop close their mouths, let them not speak a word.
Will change to virtue and to worthiness.
Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back
'I would he had'! 'Twas you incensed the rabble:
And to my humble seat conform myself.
The bell then beating one,--
Exeunt
and keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he's a
He did it with a serious mind; a heed
To buy you a better husband.
There in the full convive we: afterwards,
Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay:
Or by what means got'st thou to be released?
Thou didst speak but well
Nay, that's certain; we have the exhibition to examine.
The which he lacks; that to provoke in him,
This is fery fantastical humours and jealousies.
Hath drawn him from his own determined aid,
How now! what noise is that?
That ne'er did service for't: being press'd to the war,
Thou art a soul in bliss; but I am bound
due of a bawd, why, 'tis his right: bawd is he
To whom my father is not all unknown;
Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
Give me the glass, and therein will I read.
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts
Kissing with inside lip? stopping the career
Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?
Your eldest daughters have fordone them selves,
A phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport
By you being pardon'd, we commit no crime
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, MORTIMER, and GLENDOWER
And rather like a dream than an assurance
I do but beg a little changeling boy,
More dazzled and drove back his enemies
Please you command, a thousand times as much; And yet--
With Mars fall out, with Juno chide,
ANTIPHOLUS
O tremble, for you hear the lion roar.
Which now the house of Lancaster usurps,
Second Serving-man	Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.
How fares my lord? Help, lords! the king is dead.
[Aside]  Pray God defend me! A little thing would
And then return to us.
[Aside]  No, 'faith; not so much as his patience.
through the realm.
Sure, I think so;
Do all men kill the things they do not love?
Exeunt
Till he hath lost his honey and his sting;
I am for other business.
Have hent the gates, and very near upon
Even with the vail and darking of the sun,
Good Master Fenton, come not to my child.
Enter Guard
Exit
What needs this iteration, woman? I say thy husband.
But, like a lackey, from the rise to set
By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the matter.
He.
To him again: tell him he wears the rose
high-proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten
To do you salutation from his master.
Here, said they, is the terror of the French,
So shall all the couples three
back again with advantage. Be with me betimes in
And gain a husband by his liberty.
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
Or stronger for your need.
That fear to hate, and hate turns one or both
I think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.
But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee,
Hearing thy mildness praised in every town,
What say'st thou, man, before dead Henry's corse?
Therefore it must with circumstance be spoken
Collected from his life. I'll startle you
For hear her but exampled by herself:
Sweet madam.
fellow be looked to:' fellow! not Malvolio, nor
Out of one side her happy minion,
To evil should be done by none:
Enter PISANIO
How now, philosopher!
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
Exit
Good madam, hear me.
The thing why thou hast drawn it.
When will he be here?
horse with any that treads but on four pasterns.
But to be paddling palms and pinching fingers,
I did never see such pitiful rascals.
Give us the place alone: we will hear this divinity.
This night the siege assuredly I'll raise:
Is he alone?
Let me not shame respect; but give me leave
Alas, alas!
That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
To hear the lamentations of Poor Anne,
Well, my lord:
Thou takest
For in a night the best part of my power,
ACT V
shortened, for she has been too long a talking of,
And you, sir! you are welcome.
By Jove, I always took three threes for nine.
I say, a devil. Thinkest thou, Hortensio, though
For her sake that I have been,--for I feel
A bloody tyrant and a homicide;
O' my word, an she knew him as well as I do, she
Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure:
Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds,
That shall you, and take your leave of all your friends.
SONG.
That could stand up his parallel;
That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
That keeps his leaves in spite of any storm,
That I am ready to distrust mine eyes
Then let it do at once
SCENE I. The frontiers of Mantua. A forest.
Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.
I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone
No, nor Hector is not Troilus in some degrees.
Beside, so qualified as may beseem
Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of
Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries
Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.
In the quick forge and working-house of thought,
Lend me the letter; let me see what news.
Do you so, sir? And was the duke a fleshmonger, a
Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne,
No, not to lose it all, as thou hast done:
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.
Gerard de Narbon was my father;
However this may gall him with some cheque,
Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took
We, Hermia, like two artificial gods,
Before so noble and so great a figure
Enter LUCIO
Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up:
And all the devils are here.'
There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be
By Jove, I'll play the hunter for thy life
My comfort is that heaven will take our souls
As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave,
All feasts, societies, and throngs of men!
What is't you do?
Now York and Lancaster are reconciled.
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY, SIMPLE, and RUGBY
Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
Have nick'd his captainship; at such a point,
'Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,
Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night.
O thou eternal Mover of the heavens.
Quail, crush, conclude, and quell!
That we may wander o'er this bloody field
A light, a light!
Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most
Peace, Tranio!
thee the bucklers.
My mind was troubled with deep melancholy.
into stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is
That Lucius' banishment was wrongfully,
And fit you to your manhood. May the gods
'Tis true: there's magic in the web of it:
trencher, hence!
I yield thee up my life.
I have confess'd her and I know her virtue.
Were enough noble to be upright judge
With burthens of the dead;--some that were hang'd,
Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
I am not well: send the deed after me,
Of what is in her chamber nothing saves
And then to crave a league of amity;
Nay, do not think I flatter;
Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!
had been swelled! I should have been a mountain of mummy.
He cannot want fifty five hundred talents.
Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner,
The reverend'st throat in Athens. So I leave you
Safest in shame! being fool'd, by foolery thrive!
Which is for me less easy to commit
Of the true line and stock of Charles the Great,
Mesopotamia, and the shelters whither
some, he is in Rome: but where is he, think you?
wife within a mile where my land and living lies;
How soon my sorrow hath destroy'd my face.
the bark of a tree with mine own hands since I was
I would desires.
Of that unsatiate Edward, noble York
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
As else I would be, were the day prolong'd.
Exit ROBIN
I know she is an irksome brawling scold:
the middle on's face?
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
Thy token of reprieve.
open your chaps again.
An hour since: Cleomenes and Dion,
These flags of France, that are advanced here
For which I will divide my crown with her,
Preserver of my father, now of me,
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
Whilst I at home starve for a merry look.
Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile,
Posters of the sea and land,
All the Talbots in the world, to save my life!
Let him thank me, that holp to send him thither;
My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse.
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
Now mark him, he begins again to speak.
Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
Thou'st made me cuckold.
They must either,
in Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I
Of gracious order, late come from the See
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
Enforce the present execution
might have a good woman born but one every blazing
Against all noble sufferance.
Trumpets sound. Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS; a Soldier meeting them
Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
'Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
Why are you sequester'd from all your train,
'Tis no matter! I shall speak as much as thou
more and leave this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
Over the wretched? What though you have no beauty,--
Gave it a judge's clerk! no, God's my judge,
They are fairies; he that speaks to them shall die:
Look, York: I stain'd this napkin with the blood
Consul! what consul?
Let them come in.
I do wander everywhere,
Other offenders we will pause upon.
And rush'd into the bowels of the battle.
Till this madman show'd thee? and what art thou now?
Hail, King of Scotland!
Exit ELBOW
Adieu, my Lord; Sir Valentine is coming.
Or here or elsewhere to the furthest verge
Marry, and shall.
he fell. When he came to himself again, he said,
That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
And to sun's parching heat display'd my cheeks,
Pray you, sir, whose daughter?
Whose power was in the first proportion,
would 'twere done!
'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief,
Unto the main! O father, Maine is lost;
I now perceive, it was not altogether your
Who pour their bounty on her; and her gain
My part thereof that I have done to her.
Let him demand his fill.
wife was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
prayers; for, look you, the warrant's come.
the silly cheat. Gallows and knock are too powerful
Exit Launcelot
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get
You said our work should cease.
They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
Lorenzo, and thy love.
With humble and familiar courtesy,
the loins, and men by the legs: when a man's
Disdainful to be tried by't: 'tis not well.
In token of which duty, if he please,
Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will I bear
will blow them down.
Beseech your highness, give us better credit:
No treachery; but want of men and money.
I think, is not for idle markets, sir.
To get good guard and go along with me.
An if thou hast the mettle of a king,
To take him in the purging of his soul,
Why dost thou cry 'alas'?
Madam, withdraw: the prince, the count, Signior
And suck'd my verdure out on't. Thou attend'st not.
It was both impious and unnatural
I have told my neighbour how you have been solicited
But when from under this terrestrial ball
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
After him I love
there, and you too; but my powers are there already.
Than Venus, or those pamper'd animals
All your true followers out.
A lover may bestride the gossamer
Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
By the queen's dram she swallow'd.
That no man hath recourse to her by night.
Shall satisfy your father.
Of thy former lady's eye:
tragedians of the city.
Injurious time now with a robber's haste
I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel:
To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,
And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen
Falls
What you will, Monsieur Jaques.
Enter a Gentleman, with a bloody knife
Be gone, I say: the gods have heard me swear.
valour. Challenge me the count's youth to fight
Exeunt
SCENE I. A room in POLONIUS' house.
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
Our horses!
The very same.
And hold-fast is the only dog, my duck:
wit stirring and leave the faction of fools.
But, since I am a dog, beware my fangs:
And feast and banquet in the open streets,
Princes and counties! Surely, a princely testimony,
cannot part them.
you are--I cannot call you Lycurguses--if the drink
To cure him of this evil--But, hark! what noise?
Thy life-blood out: if Aaron now be wise,
Well, I am standing water.
Be a whore still: they love thee not that use thee;
I dare be sworn I think that he is honest.
So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
greater soldier.
This argues what her kind of life hath been,
I will both hear and grant you your requests.
I'll grow less; for I'll purge, and leave sack, and
devil: have at the very eye of that proverb with 'A
As fearful as a siege.
Well, I will see what I can do for thee: if I can
Well, and what of him?
How! wear the garland! dost thou mean the crown?
And make me happy in your unity.
As my Antigonus to break his grave
I'll not meddle nor make no further. He that will
With customary compliment; when he,
And will create thee empress of Rome,
From Rome all season'd office and to wind
SCENE III. Before the castle.
SCENE II. Fife. Macduff's castle.
SCENE III. The garden of the castle.
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home.
You may so; 'tis the better for you that your
make title to as much love as she finds: there is
Fair maid, send forth thine eye: this youthful parcel
Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me
Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
All these accused him strongly; which he fain
And from thy hated presence part I so:
There spake my brother; there my father's grave
The benefit of his blest beams, remaining
So for her many a wight did die,
Boult, spend thou that in the town: report what a
And bring thee forth brave brood.
I remember thine eyes well enough. Dost thou squiny
Exit
I fear the trust Othello puts him in.
Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks,
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks
Rise, Marcus, rise.
That gives them credit.
Yet, in protection of their tender ones,
which sold the towns in France; he that made us pay
If she be false, O, then heaven mocks itself!
They mean to warn us at Philippi here,
Or never trust to what my tongue can do
Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
I should kick, being kick'd; and, being at that pass,
Takes from Aufidius a great part of blame.
For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
Which she entreated: our courteous Antony,
Never to be infected with delight,
Methinks I could
Go to the bay and disembark my coffers:
time for all things.
Gave you a dancing-rapier by your side,
Brother, I go; I'll win them, fear it not:
What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
Opposing laws with strokes and here defying
By heaven, lady, you shall have no cause
What will you do, good grey-beard? break a lance,
Jeweller: We'll bear, with your lordship.
O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
Exeunt, fighting
I'll tell you how these lands are to be got.
Let not her penance exceed the king's commission.
As in his shape. Go, sirrah, to my cell;
nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine
His thinkings are below the moon, not worth
Yet leave our cousin Katharine here with us:
Sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully;
She does abuse our ears: to prison with her.
This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't?
It is no sin at all, but charity.
Is it so brave a lass?
If thou art she, tell me where is that son
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
Have made themselves so strong:--for with her death
A lunatic lean-witted fool,
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
But stay'd and made the western welkin blush,
Re-enter Boatswain
Was sulphurous to smell: the holy eagle
Please you walk in, my lords.
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
Where shall be shown you all was found with her;
Till he disbursed at Saint Colme's inch
Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
March within
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
Why, then, let them alone till they are sober: if
For Paris, was it? speak.
No other speaker of my living actions,
He dreamt to-night the boar had razed his helm:
And he hath sent for thee: for the queen,
Galling the gleaned land with hot assays,
Seizing LAVINIA
before, which hung so tottering in the balance that
I tell you, denied, my lord.
But if you fail, without more speech, my lord,
As she in beauty, education, blood,
This secret is so weighty, 'twill require
And, being credulous in this mad thought,
Leap'd from his eyes: so looks the chafed lion
And Don Armado shall be your keeper.
JULIET wakes
Bring him before us.
Why, go to, then: but to prove to you that Helen
Put into parts, doth keep in one consent,
Are hired to bear their staves: either thou, Macbeth,
On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
A heavier task could not have been imposed
hands. Are they all ready?
new court?
Exit LYCHORIDA
'Tis they have put him on the old man's death,
I will not hold thee long: if I do live,
Who's born that day
was begot between two stock-fishes. But it is
offence herein too, I durst attempt it against any
And ye shall find me thankful. Lead the way, lords:
How to respect you; you are the lord of duty;
Our abbeys and our priories shall pay
Do thou meet me presently at the harbour. Come
And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
Caesar's will?
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
Banish me!
Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes;
She might have been o'erta'en; and yet she writes,
A world of torments though I should endure,
Here had we now our country's honour roof'd,
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, LAERTES, Lords, OSRIC, and Attendants with foils,  and c
wert thou a horse, thou wouldst be seized by the
Who cannot steal a shape that means deceit?
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
This man, whom hand to hand I slew in fight,
Exit
She was a widow,--
Do thee all rights of service.
I was, and held me glad of such a doom.
Alone, it was the subject of my theme;
Sin, death, and hell have set their marks on him,
For live I will not, if my father die.
the young Lord Paris?
Though not for me, yet for your aching bones.
Came pouring, like the tide into a breach,
Egregious murderer, thief, any thing
Thou hast not loved:
To let my tongue excuse all. What was purposed
Joint by joint, but we will know his purpose.
And I will break with her and with her father,
Exeunt, marching
What do you call the play?
If zealous love should go in search of virtue,
Have you sent to Bottom's house ? is he come home yet?
If any one relieves or pities him,
Of that I doubt, as all men's children may.
Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching
See, it stalks away!
Why, worthy father, what have we to lose,
And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to
That their designment halts: a noble ship of Venice
Having no more but thought of what thou wert,
Against my lord the Duke of Somerset.
For our best act. If we shall stand still,
SCENE II. GLOUCESTER'S house.
If death be so apparent, then both fly.
Why, Marcus, no man should be mad but I.
Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love
all mine: and, Kate, when France is mine and I am
Thou wrong'st a gentleman, who is as far
No grave upon the earth shall clip in it
That majesty, to keep decorum, must
Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears,
Shall bear along impawn'd, away to-night!
Come, come, I'll go burn some sack; 'tis too late
Park about midnight, at Herne's oak, and you shall
So hath my lord dared him to single fight.
a charitable office.
By break of day, if the wind cease.
Good morrow, father.
To press before thy father to a grave?
of ill opinions, here's the twin-brother of thy
Enter ANTONIO
The offence is not of such a bloody nature;
Whose honour heaven shield from soil!--even he
Began to scold and raise up such a storm
Or less than a just pound, be it but so much
I long that we were safe and sound aboard.
Wouldst thou have thyself fall in the confusion of
Your face hath got five hundred pound a year,
SCENE II. Another street.
I am glad to see you.
The abuse of distance; force a play:
For him attempting who was self-subdued;
From off our coast, twice beaten; and his shipping--
Now, all the plagues that in the pendulous air
And thence discover how with most advantage
To call them both a pair of crafty knaves.
Ay, indeed, was he.
Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
Exception bid him speak, and at this time
Then you love us, we you, and we'll clasp hands:
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
And so by many winding nooks he strays
Whither?
Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman be a
And say 'What is't your honour will command,
I should have known no less.
Go, bring them in: and take your places, ladies.
Even on that altar where we swore to you
Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee;
virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?
I go, my lord, in heart desiring still
Have I with all my full affections
But such an honest chronicler as Griffith.
My name is Pistol call'd.
And liberty plucks justice by the nose;
We'll see these things effected to the full.
Do prophesy upon it dangerously:
That thou so many princes at a shot
Hark! the trumpets.
His well-proportion'd beard made rough and rugged,
Madam, as thereto sworn by your command,
You will do't, sir, really.
Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
Even to their ships.
time: it opens the eyes of expectation:
Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches,
I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.
We talk here in the public haunt of men:
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
As the recomforted through the gates. Why, hark you!
And think thee worthy of an empress' love:
And yet I would that you would answer me.
All points of my command.
Give you good night.
Enter CORIN
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
Such as is bent on sun-like majesty
Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, count;
Exit Post
Lady, what man is he you are accused of?
To Salisbury; the rest march on with me.
And, in thy reverence and thy chair-days, thus
Here comes his majesty.
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
No, by mine honour, madam.
Just as my master had direction:
SCENE VI. Friar Laurence's cell.
so it skills not much when they are delivered.
I would not from thee.
And Portia one, there must be something else
France together: why the devil should we keep
Walter, Sugarsop and the rest: let their heads be
If you did know for whom I gave the ring
And die as I would do.
Fie, fie!
From these sad thoughts, that work too much upon him:
His absence, sir,
I will possess you of that ship and treasure.
With any but with us.
Upon my smiles. Go, get thee from me, Cromwell;
SCENE II. The island. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
Were to incense the boar to follow us
I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
If I in act, consent, or sin of thought,
Did give him that same royalty he wears;
To be suspected of more tenderness
Why dost thou say King Richard is deposed?
Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look;
You have added worth unto 't and lustre,
[Aside]  But now of late, notable to travel with her
SCENE VII. Macbeth's castle.
Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
To stop all hopes whose growth may damage me.
I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most
True; for he bears it not about him, 'tis hid.
Dispatch, I prithee.
Of head-piece extraordinary? lower messes
Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
Should they not,
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
Should of another therefore be abused!
The arbitrement is like to be bloody. Fare you
him kill the next Percy himself. I look to be either
discretion; I had as lief thou didst break his neck
When English measure backward their own ground
The Lord of Stafford dear to-day hath bought
like it very well; but in respect that it is
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
As thou art to this hour was Richard then
Not shriving-time allow'd.
I would not my unhoused free condition
Ha, ha! keep time: how sour sweet music is,
Exeunt Players
Exit
The swifter speed the better.
He runs at IAGO  IAGO, from behind, stabs EMILIA, and exit
The will of man is by his reason sway'd;
They may, 'cum privilegio,' wear away
[To MARINA]  First, I would have you note, this is
Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
Upon thy wedding-day?
whereof being by circumstances partly laid open,
acquainted him with the cause in controversy between
For Rome, towards Marcius.
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends, you were
To our proceeding bids me tell you this;
A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled
This is no answer.
Of this fair mansion, master of my servants,
What, all in motion? Henceforth be no feast,
Gentle madam, no.
It was a mark of wonder.
Till we meet Warwick with his foreign power.
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
she would sooner confess: perchance, publicly,
She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
Doubtful it stood;
I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower.
which there were no expectation of our prosperity.
May the world know them?
When it hath blown his ranks into the air,
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
him.
men eat Timon, and he sees 'em not! It grieves me
Once Arviragus, in as like a figure,
Draw nearer, honest Flaminius. Thy lord's a
Alas, master, I know not.
And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
Had York and Somerset brought rescue in,
He be approved in practise culpable.
handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
What, had he so?
Henceforth I will not have to do with pity:
His present and your pains we thank you for:
I'll be your purse-bearer and leave you
By good Euriphile, our mother.
Peace, ho! Hear Antony. Most noble Antony!
Betwixt your eyes and night?
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
And make me put into contempt the suits
I like it never the better for that. Does he lie at
What, my young master? O, my gentle master!
Which by us shall blessed be;
And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
To public ear:
And greets your highness dearly.
An angry brow, dread lord.
Farewell the tranquil mind! farewell content!
No.
I care not if I have: it is my study
The harmony of this peace. The vision
Or else I'll call my brother back again,
Her father will be angry.
I cry your honour mercy; you may, worst
My conscience tells me you are innocent.
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
That I might rail at him, to ease my mind!
The milk thou suck'dst from her did turn to marble;
I will be angry: what hast thou to do?
Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
What, with Lysander?
What shall be our sport, then?
To monstrous quality,--why, you shall find
An if she were a thornier piece of ground than she
Since then hath made between them. Unto her
That will I make before I let thee go.
Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid,
Speak freely of our acts, or else our grave,
Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
Methinks his lordship should be humbler;
I view the fight than thou that makest the fray.
I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.
In God's name, speak: when is the royal day?
That struck the hour!--it was in Rome,--accursed
And for my sister and her princely sons,
That cries 'Retire,' if Warwick bid him stay.
More than in your addition.
Nobody come? then shall I bleed to death.
Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile.
The brawns of Hercules: but his Jovial face
This scatter'd corn  into one mutual sheaf,
Unto the appetite and affection common
For this design. What course I mean to hold
Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
Is there no remedy?
drunk, yet I am not altogether an ass.
Why, wilt thou tourney for the lady?
Determine for her; for Caesar cannot live
Nor, I'll assure you, better taken, sir.
To marry Princess Margaret for your grace,
And sanctify the numbers.
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
Exeunt Wife, Beadle, Mayor,  and c
Why sigh you so profoundly? where's my lord? gone!
Madam, I trust, not so.
Of the right reverend Cardinal of York.
And every measure fail me.
Exit with his train. Flourish of cornets
And therefore do they cry, though you forbid,
Why, but you are now well enough: how came you thus
O Lord, sir, who do you mean?
Hath beat down Menon: bastard Margarelon
And this is Trojan; the sinews of this leg
There is no fellow in the firmament.
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.
The cat, with eyne of burning coal,
No quips now, Pistol! Indeed, I am in the waist two
I will.
To wage against the enmity o' the air;
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
Behold, sir king,
The great'st grace lending grace
above your eye?
I would most gladly know the issue of it.
Sail how thou canst, have wind and tide thy friend,
That man may question? You seem to understand me,
Ha, ha, ha!
pausing
The higher our opinion, that our stirring
Marcus, even thou hast struck upon my crest,
For death-like dragons here affright thee hard:
'Twill fill your stomachs; please you eat of it.
Vouchsafe, bright moon, and these thy stars, to shine,
You hear the learn'd Bellario, what he writes:
Which is one?
If I say fine, cry 'Fine;' if death, cry 'Death.'
By my troth, a good song.
Right worthy you priority.
Reads
I will not keep my word.
Exit
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
fire: and his lips blows at his nose, and it is like
Come, my fair Cordelia.
How will this fadge? my master loves her dearly;
Self-harming jealousy! fie, beat it hence!
prepared. I am made to understand that you have
You'll see your Rome embraced with fire before
abroad: this letter will tell you more.
And heaven itself doth frown upon the land.
So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,
And maidens bleach their summer smocks
And I will.
melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples,
If you think meet, this afternoon will post
Till storms be past of civil enmity.
Or be not, I'll not swear.
Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos' strand,
I'll rather be unmannerly than troublesome.
And now in England to our heart's great sorrow,
paramour for a sweet voice.
That has he knows not what. Nature, what things there are
Sleeps in Elysium; next day after dawn,
Rates and revenges.
Now, sirs: by'r lady, you fought fair; so did you,
And to your heirs for ever, common pleasures,
sympathy in years, manners and beauties; all which
prayer, for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.
From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
And go with you.
From that it is disposed: therefore it is meet
Here stand we both, and aim we at the best:
And, should we shift estates, yours would be mine.
And the ear-deafening voice o' the oracle,
The blood upon your visage dries; 'tis time
To save this brat's life?
And when I ask'd you what the matter was,
and hasty, like a Scotch jig, and full as
Octavius, lead your battle softly on,
Shall we shog? the king will be gone from
Why?
Here didst thou fall; and here thy hunters stand,
The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd; the
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES, with other Lords of Tyre
Thou art so fat-witted, with drinking of old sack
You do amaze her: hear the truth of it.
SCENE III. The same. A room in SHYLOCK'S house.
[Aside]             To be sure of that,
And henceforth I am thy true servitor:
That none of you may live your natural age,
Thou couldst have spoke so well; ne'er dream'd thou couldst.
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
Descend, and keep your words.
That was expected by the Dauphin here,
Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,
And with his former title greet Macbeth.
Study is like the heaven's glorious sun
For breathing and exploit.
For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a
velvet: his left cheek is a cheek of two pile and a
And therefore, setting all this chat aside,
Of England's true-anointed lawful king.
A noise within, crying 'Room for the Queen!' Enter  QUEEN KATHARINE, ushered by NORFOLK, and SUFFOLK:  she kneels. KING HENRY VIII riseth from his state, takes her up, kisses and placeth her by him
Out of his grace he adds.
Hath stol'n it from her?
she'll none of me: the count himself here hard by woos her.
Well, my lord, since you have given me leave to speak.
What if I stray'd no further, but chose here?
The custom of request you have discharged:
Add thereto a tiger's chaudron,
How say you now? is not your husband mad?
The worthiness of praise distains his worth,
To an impatient child that hath new robes
His liberal eye doth give to every one,
His promises fly so beyond his state
To mild entreaties, God in heaven forbid
Stand aside, good bearer. Boyet, you can carve;
Amen, amen! Go on, good Eglamour,
And through the instrument my pate made way;
them break your backs with burthens, take your
As if those organs had deceptious functions,
Re-enter CATESBY
A fool, a fool! I met a fool i' the forest,
I'll be sworn 'tis true; he will weep you, an 'twere
Though, haply, well for you.
God save your majesty!
He might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you
wise men do foolishly.
the ear of the court, how I have been transformed
Shall enter me with him.
And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
Enter, from one side, AARON, DEMETRIUS, and  CHIRON; from the other side, Young LUCIUS, and an  Attendant, with a bundle of weapons, and verses writ upon them
In some sort, sir: but though my case be a pitiful
Eating a root
less reason. Let us be conjunctive in our revenge
Thy husband he is dead: and for his death
No shape but his can please your dainty eye.
More than the wild-cat: drones hive not with me;
should be lewdly given, he deceiveth me; for, Harry,
Which lead directly to the door of truth,
[Within]  What, ho! what, ho! what, ho!
Not dropp'd down yet.
Exit
Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep?
Calchas' tent:
Before this out-dared dastard? Ere my tongue
I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips,
these signs;
To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die;
Enobarbus!
But in the balance of great Bolingbroke,
One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit.
I'll prove her fair, or talk till doomsday here.
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
Exeunt
And therefore instantly this prince must die:
'Tis hatch'd and shall be so: Tranio, at once
And like a mountain, not to be removed.
With rainy marching in the painful field;
The former man may make him. Bring us to him,
follows his own instructions: I can easier teach
Boskos vauvado: I understand thee, and can speak
be so, good Corporal Nym.
home! it rejoiceth my intellect: true wit!
score. He pieces out his wife's inclination; he
No;
Denmark's a prison.
And flaky darkness breaks within the east.
Until this instant. Take a trumpet, herald;
To deal with grief alone.
Peruse them well:
The thickest and the tallest.
lord, fie! a soldier, and afeard? What need we
I rather wish you foes than hollow friends:
Dismay'd not this
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
to-morrow?
Here lie I, Timon; who, alive, all living men did hate:
A dreadful oath, sworn with a solemn tongue!
The times and titles now are alter'd strangely
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
Of this great sport together, as you guess?
Turn you where your lady is
Do I take part: the rarer action is
And with full line of his authority,
If it be so,
And set upon our boasting enemy.
I will, if that my fading breath permit
This shall assure my constant loyalty,
Hanging the head at Ceres' plenteous load?
For truth can never be confirm'd enough,
fie, fie! pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet,
The emperor, in his rage, will doom her death.
I rather would entreat thy company
No more than what he thinks he is.
You got it from her: she call'd the saints to surety
Then let your servants bring my husband forth.
For this was brief--I found them close together,
The emperor himself and all thy foes;
Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace,
Make thy demand.
Your own present folly and her passing deformity:
SCENE II. The same.
Into my husband's hands. This trusty servant
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
Ripeness is all: come on.
I am not I, if there be such an I;
Are but as pictures: 'tis the eye of childhood
smutch'd thy nose?
See, lord and father, how we have perform'd
I thank you, princes, for my daughter's death:
Re-enter Officers with ISABELLA; and Provost with the DUKE VINCENTIO in his friar's habit
Hath this brave manage, this career, been run.
How the dispatch is made, and in what fashion,
all, if there is not better directions.
Due reference of place and exhibition,
Who wanting guilders to redeem their lives
I am his fortune's vassal, and I send him
Why dost thou call him a knave?  What's his offence?
In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen:
Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works,
One hundred twenty six: added to these,
A canopy most fatal, under which
The evils she hatch'd were not effected; so
Good words, Thersites.
Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
Shall they see us?
Therein do men from children nothing differ.
Dear for her reputation through the world,
Helen, I love thee; by my life, I do:
respect it is not in the court, it is tedious. As
SCENE III. England. Before the King's palace.
Farewell; for I must leave you:
Would I had put my estate and my neighbour's on the
Suddenly taken; and hath sent post haste
Softly and swiftly, sir; for the priest is ready.
Bearing the king's will from his mouth expressly?
O for your reason! quickly, sir; I long.
Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
They may awake their helps to comfort them.
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse
look upon his school-master.
Exeunt
What! threat you me with telling of the king?
Of an unthrifty knave, and presently
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
Is it excepted I should know no secrets
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should.
Enter Host, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls
What should I say? he was too good to be
Alarum afar off, as at a sea-fight
See how my sword weeps for the poor king's death!
And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
Now mingled with their courages, will make known
Will give him cable.
As for that heinous tiger, Tamora,
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with
'I am yours for ever.'
That, when the exigent should come, which now
I give to both your speeches, which were such
Acquaint her with the danger of my state:
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
though there were no further danger known but the
A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
Here comes the countess: now heaven walks on earth.
Grown fear'd and tedious; yea, my gravity,
Yet hath my night of life some memory,
My most redoubted father,
To make this contract grow: but barren hate,
And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
Being opposites of such repairing nature.
that writ it had played Pyramus and hanged himself
If ye be any thing but churchmen's habits--
End in one purpose, and be all well borne
More stronger to direct you than yourself,
Even so. Heaven keep your honour!
That I would choose, were I to choose anew.
Marry, at the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus' chin.
Under my burthen groan'd; which raised in me
Come, my good lord, away.
Exeunt
Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit;
For they are actions that a man might play:
To show itself but pride, for supple knees
Use us and it.
Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
Then old and fond of issue, took such sorrow
To save this brother's life?
He could not stay to pick them in a pile
That we have given him cause.
If ever you prove false one to another, since I have
duke: you know the character, I doubt not; and the
preserve virginity. Loss of virginity is rational
She's a most exquisite lady.
O piteous spectacle!
What? what?
Have I commandment on the pulse of life?
I thank you, good my lord; and thank you all.
I then moved you,
I was preserved to serve this noble count.
Then I'll commend her volubility,
And pick strong matter of revolt and wrath
Lord Talbot of Goodrig and Urchinfield,
Call it not patience, Gaunt; it is despair:
That ever turn'd their eyes to mortal views!--Out--
on his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my
I almost die for food; and let me have it.
Protector be; and God shall be my hope,
You are married?
Am I a woodman, ha? Speak I like Herne the hunter?
As in a theatre, the eyes of men,
Exeunt
Duchess of Burgundy.
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear,
Prithee, man, look cheerly. These old fellows
The duke's to blame in this; 'twill be ill taken.
Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her; I will
He hath a daily beauty in his life
Hark you, my friend; you said you could not beg.
For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar's angel:
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
Misprising what they look on, and her wit
Good Sir Toby!
were sensible as your finger, that you might leave
Infusing him with self and vain conceit,
I understand you, sir; 'tis well begged.
Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt
You were of our determination!
Makes our hopes fair. Command our present numbers
His servant live, and will his vassal die:
I cross'd the seas on purpose and on promise
In fearful sense.
If you have victory, let the trumpet sound
In change of him: let him be sent, great princes,
That know not how to use ambassadors,
That presses them and learns them first to bear,
Hath made us forward. But, my gentle queen,
by mine honour,
Richard, be Duke of Gloucester. Now to London,
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes a feast:
for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish
the face of the gods.
Farewell, good friar: I prithee, pray for me. The
Dost thou attend me?
My crown is in my heart, not on my head;
Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath?
Prithee, to bed; and in thy prayers remember
When that is known and golden time convents,
This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who
Thy brother's love, our duty, and thy fault,
God grant we never may have need of you!
For here the Trojans taste our dear'st repute
According as I gave directions?
Exeunt
Alack, poor gentleman!
When such a spacious mirror's set before him,
And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up
resolved to die.
When his love he doth espy,
How, how! another?
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
O' my troth, most sweet jests! most incony
Inflame too nicely; nor let pity, which
What is the matter with our cousin now?
That hath contrived this woful tragedy!
Certain: Alcibiades reports it; Phrynia and
How might she tongue me! Yet reason dares her no;
Sir, I commend you to your own content.
if you should die before him, where's her dower?
years. You have seen cruel proof of this man's
I need not add more fuel to your fire,
As to expend your time with us awhile,
The shepherd seeks the sheep, and not the sheep the
'Tis of some wreck.
Enter a Sergeant of a band with two Sentinels
My purposes do draw me much about:
Nor boots it me to say I honour him.
And here again; that I may rest assured
Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
I left them all in health.
Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep,
[Aside]  I will be patient; I will find out this.
him from't.
With needless jealosy;
'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us,
Minds sway'd by eyes are full of turpitude.
And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor;
I was, unhandsome warrior as I am,
You have done well by water.
What was he that you followed with your sword? What
Women will all turn monsters.
Yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue.
Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
Sir, even now
thee, nuncle; thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides,
Well; the matter?
actors by the scroll. Masters, spread yourselves.
Drums and trumpets sounded. Enter MARTIUS and  MUTIUS; After them, two Men bearing a coffin  covered with black; then LUCIUS and QUINTUS. After  them, TITUS ANDRONICUS; and then TAMORA, with  ALARBUS, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, AARON, and other Goths,  prisoners; Soldiers and people following. The Bearers set down the coffin, and TITUS speaks
And put it in his pocket!
Which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
Let me request you off: our graver business
Alack, for pity!
What's that to thee? why may not I demand
To set a gloss upon his bold intent,
If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink,
Might with effects of them follow our friends,
This was lofty! Now name the rest of the players.
A madness, of which her life's in danger. Heavens,
When it is paid according to the tenor.
DON
gentlemen.
Why, then, I would resort to her by night.
The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me,
Afford no extraordinary gaze,
I hope it remains not unkindly with your lordship
Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,'
Good night.
may carry it thus, for our pleasure and his penance,
with a shame as ample.
Do not name Silvia thine; if once again,
With principalities.
At Berwick in the north, an't like your grace.
After well enter'd soldiers, to return
something: but I make my wager rather against your
When I do see the very book indeed
When down her weedy trophies and herself
insanie: anne intelligis, domine? to make frantic, lunatic.
What trade, sir?
With old odd ends stolen out of holy writ;
I must away to-day, before night come:
Re-enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and TRANIO
Upon my sword.
SCENE VII. Another part of the field.
lying; the longer kept, the less worth: off with 't
O cunning, how I got it!--nay, some marks
Of honourable reckoning are you both;
How say'st thou, that Macduff denies his person
The world, who of itself is peised well,
You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
Brief, then; and what's the news?
Why, then you mean not as I thought you did.
ACT V
How I may bear me here: my prime request,
You know I am a woman, lacking wit
This bodiless creation ecstasy
That this great soldier may his welcome know.
'Peace, peace, peace!' 'Stay, hold, peace!'
And in thy hateful lungs, yea, in thy maw, perdy,
Here's a Bohemian-Tartar tarries the coming down of
flesh, and cost me the dearest groans of a mother, I
Hang it!
Sir Thurio, fear not you: I will so plead
The woman falls; sure, he hath kill'd his wife.
Ay, my good lord, I know the gentleman
which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear,
I swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes,
Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness,
Such and such pictures; there the window; such
Thou shalt have justice, more than thou desirest.
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
Exeunt
Neither.
Say you so? come on.
Hath almost made me traitor to myself:
What, are they broken?
eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior
I am now going to resolve him: I had rather my
Fie, fie, fie! cuckold! cuckold! cuckold!
'Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.
Clapp'd wings to me.
What, jealous Oberon! Fairies, skip hence:
Simois,' I know you not, 'hic est Sigeia tellus,' I
O, call back yesterday, bid time return,
A pair of worthier sons.
think me still no gentleman born: you were best say
ANTIPHOLUS
I pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
DON
A smiling with a sigh, as if the sigh
But stir not you till you have well determined
Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,
Who put unluckily into this bay
fidiused for all the chests in Corioli, and the gold
Indeed, she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed;
For which my sinews shall be stretch'd upon him.
Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
That's not so good: he cannot like her long.
And in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not.
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
I have spoke already, and it is provided;
That he hath not.
snorting like a horse.
O'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler.
dish of some three-pence; your honours have seen
Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tears
Come, come, I'll hear no more of this; I'll sing
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,
instance? Tongue, I must put you into a
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
Go to.
[Kneeling]              It is my duty
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
Thou dotard! thou art woman-tired, unroosted
Come, come, a hand from either:
A maid of grace and complete majesty--
with idleness, or manured with industry, why, the
And I the king shall love thee.
Had I been there, which am a silly woman,
The fitter, then, the gods should have her. Here
The cardinal is the end of this.
And all the ruins of distressful times
Is he gone, and hath nothing?
Nothing is done to purpose. Therefore, beseech you,--
Silvia: did not I bid thee still mark me and do as I
A thousand raw tricks of these bragging Jacks,
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
With painted imagery had said at once
my heart will be blown up by the root.
Relent! 'tis cowardly and womanish.
What work is here! Charmian, is this well done?
Seeking to hide herself, as doth the deer
For every inch of woman in the world,
No;
To the perpetual wink for aye might put
Thy mother's dead.
I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see,
Each in his office ready at thy beck.
it did not speak before. All solemn things
I am prepared: here is my keen-edged sword,
Is in his brain: he bites his lip, and starts;
For he conjured her she should ever keep it,
And see our pleasure herein executed.
Shall I seem crest-fall'n in my father's sight?
As e'er thy father Henry made it mine;
consider, he's an enemy to mankind.
And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death
These letters come from your father.
Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
With whom an upright zeal to right prevails
Which tie him to an answer. Our wishes on the way
And leave you not a man-of-war unsearch'd:
Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not?
The selfsame name, but one of better nature.
First Serving-Man	Villains, answer you so the lord protector?
And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
But curse the cause I cannot aid the man.
And hold no longer out.
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Of one not easily jealous, but being wrought
Be these the wretches that we play'd at dice for?
To do myself this reason and this right.
'Let our reciprocal vows be remembered. You have
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
O! we are spoiled and--yonder he is: deny him,
To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
What, are you hurt, lieutenant?
'Thanks, gentle citizens and friends,' quoth I;
And made our footstool of security.
To the disposing of it nought rebell'd.
That you in pity may dissolve to dew,
wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet
Hold, for your lives!
Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him.
[Reads]  'Thy mistress, Pisanio, hath played the
Gentle kinsman, go,
What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher
can do you little harm; you'll forswear this again.
Beggar the estimation which you prized
With distinct breath and consign'd kisses to them,
But must not break my back to heal his finger;
Not soon provoked nor being provoked soon calm'd:
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
And stay your coming to present themselves.
Enter SPEED
With one that wants her wits?
secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all
Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,
She is young, and of a noble modest nature,
O princely Buckingham I'll kiss thy hand,
I crave your highness' pardon.
behavedst thyself as if thou hadst been in thine own
sufficient. Yet his means are in supposition: he
This monument five hundred years hath stood,
Faith, stay here this night; they will surely do us
Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them
What case stand I in? I must be the poisoner
Boy, bristle thy courage up; for Falstaff he is dead,
Can from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck
Five and twenty, sir.
Lay me stark naked, and let the water-flies
Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicel, Gillian, Ginn!
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
knave; that's, before me thou'rt a knave: this had
You always end with a jade's trick: I know you of old.
'Zounds, he dies: I had forgot the reward.
The care I had and have of subjects' good
Prithee, peace.
To herald thee from the womb: even at the first
And give him from me this most needful scroll.
For them to play at will. How came the posterns
And add more coals to Cancer when he burns
To the Venetian state. Come, bring him away.
Disarm them, and let them question: let them keep
Bring him through the bands.
How now! what's the matter?
I'll go watch.
One half of me is yours, the other half yours,
Which thus she hath prevented.
Call you me daughter? now, I promise you
And she will be your scholar: therefore look to it.
The treacherous manner of his mournful death
Do, good William.
Shall wait upon your father's funeral.
Yet, wooing thee, I found thee of more value
Heard you this, Gonzalo?
Away, I say; time wears: hold up your head, and mince.
Hortensio, hark:
And on it have bestow'd more contrite tears
For this one speech Lord Hastings well deserves
And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony!
wars is not kept: if you would take the pains but to
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord
proclamation, and he rails upon me.
How!
I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master
Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence!
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
Impossible.
Exeunt
What, are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica:
Our just and lineal entrance to our own;
Which patience could not pass.
It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
I'll bring you to him straight.
Hath Cassius lived
capital? Tell me, for you seem to be honest plain
pastime with us a day or two, or longer: if
With cozening hope: he is a flatterer,
Till my attempt so much be glorified
But win the noble Brutus to our party--
Aside
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
[Within]  Servilius, help! My lord! my lord!
At your request! yes; nightingales answer daws.
With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits,
His banners sable, trimm'd with rich expense;
Told of a many thousand warlike French
And when the dusky sky began to rob
They depart
To put him to ill thinking.
And jewels, two stones, two rich and precious stones,
I was, my lord.
Would not have been so stern.
Exit
If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
And I will boot thee with what gift beside
am above thee; but be not afraid of greatness: some
comedy. No more words: away! go, away!
I think it is good morrow, is it not?
I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,
He is my son; yea, and therein my shame;
They fight and YOUNG SIWARD is slain
What plume of feathers is he that indited this letter?
Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
Good morrow, noble captain.
Were purchased by the merit of the wearer!
And soothest up greatness. What a fool art thou,
To-morrow be in readiness to go:
At such a bay, by turn to serve our lust.
ANTIPHOLUS
You knew of his departure, as you know
In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
To the Elephant.
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Hector's great spirit flew: answer me, heavens!
Against thy deity.
A persecutor, I am sure, thou art:
With you, mine alder-liefest sovereign,
Until some half-hour past, when I was arm'd:
That this fell fault of my accursed sons,
She hath no tongue to call, nor hands to wash;
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
Each hath his place and function to attend:
I think he bought his doublet in Italy, his round
Hooking both right and wrong to the appetite,
What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two, to
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
to understand you have prevailed, I am no further
To make us strangers to his looks of love.
My daughter Katharina is to be married:
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
'Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument,
sing, certainly.
But I will fit it with some better time.
Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong
To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection,
To plague thee for thy foul misleading me.
There's none so foul and foolish thereunto,
Flourish. Trumpets sound, and drums
Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,
Reads
Sometimes to do me service: nine or ten times
The queen desires you to use some gentle
be in that mind.
Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
Exeunt all but HAMLET and HORATIO
The sin upon my head, dread sovereign!
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO in his own habit, and FRIAR PETER
You may so in the end.
to-day; whereupon the Grecians begin to proclaim
interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,
We do not mean the coursing snatchers only,
doing much alone. You talk of pride: O that you
Have died had I not made it.
What handkerchief?
How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex
Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
Why, how now? ho, awake! Why are you drawn?
'Twould not become him; his own's better.
When we may profit meet, and come too late.
Than cherishing the exhibiters against us;
Music ceases
Lady, you have. Pray you, peruse that letter.
strike at me, that your arrow hath glanced.
And we'll consign thereto. Will you, fair sister,
Just in her case! O woful sympathy!
of good fellowship come to you! What, shall we be
Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
Nay Warwick, single out some other chase;
Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way
This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
Commanded nature, that my lady's womb,
It is silliness to live when to live is torment; and
Come, will you go with me?
She hales him up and down
And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.
And his disciples only envy at,
O, that's well said; the chair!
fool hath much pined away.
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
When in the why and the wherefore is neither rhyme
By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.
sceptre for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich
We will read it, I swear.
Enter STEPHANO, singing: a bottle in his hand
Yea, yea, my lord: I'll yield him thee asleep,
When that the general is not like the hive
That go or tarry.
I then crave pardon of your majesty.
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
Although my body pay the price of it.
Doth move the murmuring lips of discontent
If he be not amazed, he will be mocked; if he be
What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?
Where is my wit? I know not what I speak.
I was the more deceived.
Is Clarence dead? the order was reversed.
Sir, we have known together in Orleans.
And other of such vinegar aspect
bark Expedition put forth to-night; and then were
Ah, my young princes! ah, my tender babes!
But mount you presently and meet with me
Here, at your lordship's service.
Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua
As I would buy thee, view thee limb by limb.
Is not more loathed than an effeminate man
What man is that?
I know thy constellation is right apt
Than can our reasons. There's no man in the world
Most thoroughly for my father.
but to counterfeit dying, when a man thereby
Fair Lady Cressid,
Fair fall the face it covers!
her maidenhead ere they have it: men shall hold of
That indirectly and directly too
Were it better, I should rush in thus.
How many be commanded that command!
To LAERTES
she answers thee with frowning looks, I'll sauce her
Profaned, dishonour'd, and the third usurp'd.
But what is like me formerly.
another laced, an old rusty sword ta'en out of the
would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.
And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
That this fair action may on foot be brought.
Then God forgive the sin of all those souls
With wealth enough and young and beauteous,
'Tis not the first time you were overshot.
Enter TIMON, ALCIBIADES, and Lords,  and c
This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastes
What will Count Rousillon do then? will he travel
Where's Simple, my man? Can you tell, cousin?
Patroclus, let us feast him to the height.
Enter MARK ANTONY with EUPHRONIUS, the Ambassador
Still growing in a majesty and pomp, the which
Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
Is dearest to me. I have no skill in sense
He has the stamp of Marcius; and I have
SCENE IV. Tyre. A room in the Governor's house.
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head;
rather, gentle princess, because I love thee
If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn.
To come into his presence.
But I should think of shallows and of flats,
Ay, sir, all this is so: but why
polecat, you runyon! out, out! I'll conjure you,
I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.
Say I fear'd Caesar, honour'd him and loved him.
Opens the letter and reads
SCENE IV. The same. KING PHILIP'S tent.
I pray you, daughter, sing; or express yourself in a
Proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled
You know your own degrees; sit down: at first
I were the fairest goddess on the ground:
Sole sir o' the world,
That shall first spring and be most delicate.
Whose heads stood in their breasts? which now we find
I am fire and air; my other elements
So did he turn and over Suffolk's neck
We shall find a time, Audrey; patience, gentle Audrey.
They shall no more prevail than we give way to.
this advantage, first, that your stay with him may
Parted you in good terms? Found you no
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
Will do's commission throughly: and I think
my errand;
he is best, he is a little worse than a man, and
generally thankful.
When I was born, the wind was north.
That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
And leave me but the bran.' What say you to't?
But truth is truth: large lengths of seas and shores
Unreasonable creatures feed their young;
And hurl the name of husband in my face
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
Which should undo more doing: ay, and thou,
My mind was never yet more mercenary.
Beyond the infinite and boundless reach
Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
condition of blood, you should so know me. The
That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
To wish it back on you: fare you well Jessica.
I do forget.
To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
for there are liars and swearers enow to beat
This way for me.
And given in earnest what I begg'd in jest.
Good work, you and your cry! Shall's to the Capitol?
Live in your country here in banishment,
One calls within 'Juliet.'
Not here, sir!
gown: he sees thee not.
I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with
Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern,
Either that is thine, or else thou wert not his.
warrant for it: it hath not moved him at all.
You have paid the heavens your function, and the
And I say the earth was not of my mind,
To kiss in private?
And do the murder first: if he awake,
Woe to her chance, and damn'd her loathed choice!
SCENE III. London. Before a tavern.
Of our great action: therefore shall he die,
My state is desperate for my master's love;
For losing ken of Albion's wished coast.
And in his company that gentleman.
ANTIPHOLUS
It is the part of men to fear and tremble,
Enter BUCKINGHAM
Where you shall be an everlasting leiger:
And writ as little beard.
If any plague hang over us, 'tis he.
Have I sought every country far and near,
But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep,
Do, child, go to it grandam, child:
Ay, Hamlet.
Judge me, you gods! wrong I mine enemies?
If it should give your age such cause of fear:
Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn,
they would else have married me to the rotten medlar.
Something not worth in me such rich beholding
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows
He that brings this love to thee
I will resist such entertainment till
There be some such, no question.
Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
Take heed of perjury; thou art on thy deathbed.
O gentle villain, do not turn away!
If thou dost, I shall never love thee after. Why,
As his composure must be rare indeed
Write down, that they hope they serve God: and
That hand which had the strength, even at your door,
forsooth, to search his house for his wife's love.
You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a
And like as rigor of tempestuous gusts
And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war,
Nay, pray, be patient: if you refuse your aid
I'll woo you like a soldier, at arms' end,
Octavius, then take him to follow thee,
Music plays. Enter two or three Servants with a banquet
And by the honourable tomb he swears,
Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bower,
In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks
Now will I question Cassio of Bianca,
most resolutely snatched on Monday night and most
toward you peradventure than is in your knowledge to dream of.
What, now?
here,--this, who, like a block, hath denied my
And have thee reverenced like a blessed saint:
Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
His wonders and his praises do contend
And so, though yours, not yours. Prove it so,
Entreat thee back to Athens; who have thought
Go fetch me something: I'll break ope the gate.
Not that I think you did not love your father;
Stigmatical in making, worse in mind.
Sun, hide thy beams! Timon hath done his reign.
The ear more quick of apprehension makes;
Nay, follow'd him, till he had melted from
Or on Diana's altar to protest
her husband, will be from home. Alas! the sweet
Tell him the queen hath heartily consented
Accounted dangerous folly: why then, alas,
I see, sir, you are liberal in offers
[Aside]  Heaven give thee moving graces!
'Tis to be doubted he would waken him.
Nothing.
Your lord sends now for money.
Cominius, no.
Were not revenge sufficient for me;
His health was never better worth than now.
An honourable trial.
Is our best having.
Shall be so ever.
At least we'll die with harness on our back.
purses go by the moon and the seven stars, and not
And all to make away my guiltless life.
But thine doth fry.
Withdrew me from the odds of multitude:
My lord?
MARCUS strikes the dish with a knife
Scratches with briers,
him again? Answer me in one word.
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
This very day,
He is full of valour as of kindness;
brought it?
All men, I hope, live so.
To meet anon, upon your approbation.
bed, and warm thee.
beguile Nature of her custom, so perfectly he is her
The young man is an honest man.
Weeping again the king my father's wreck,
The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church.
[Coming forward]
Men are not still the same: 'twas time and griefs
slain thee,
Unless the Dauphin be in presence here,
The while I'll place you: then the boy shall sing;
He that conceals him, death.
stay the cooling too, or you may chance to burn your lips.
Now no discourse, except it be of love;
This in the public eye?
Ancient, conduct them: you best know the place.
Voiced so regardfully?
Happy be you!
Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
shoulders: but it is no English treason to cut
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
And on the sudden dropp'd.
Thou shalt be free
Noble prince,
'Tis indeed, madam; we thank the giver.
And, for the time shall not seem tedious,
Call thee to answer.
Two things provided more, that, for this favour,
What, should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead?
That you might see your shadow. I have heard,
Shall be no shelter to these outrages:
Unnatural though thou art. Their understanding
Although particular, shall give a scantling
This day was view'd in open as his queen,
I came hither to tell you; and, circumstances
Madam and mistress, a thousand good-morrows.
Break open shops; nothing can you steal,
He, woman;
By which the property of youth and maidhood
'Twixt right and wrong, for pleasure and revenge
No.
Exit
spacious in the possession of dirt.
Unwilling I agreed. Alas! too soon,
Where death and danger dogs the heels of worth:
I'll after him, and see the event of this.
Was not a man my father? Hadst thou foxship
Enter KENT
Aside
What with him? he comes not
Here is the place, my lord; good my lord, enter:
His accusations.
For never shall you lie by Portia's side
To Caesar I will speak what you shall please,
Yet hold I off. Women are angels, wooing:
An I might live to see thee married once,
To make a more requital to your love!
The king's a bawcock, and a heart of gold,
Glendower speaks to her in Welsh, and she answers him in the same
To pardon Mutius and to bury him.
And his advantage following your decease,
And makes him roar these accusations forth.
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
The arm of mine own body, and the heart
I charged thee that she should not come about me:
Lieth down; the Judges,  and c., pass by him, and Exeunt
of wives: alas, fifteen wives is nothing! eleven
That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter,
Well, go to, go to.
As I took note of the place, it cannot be far where
Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee,
Snatching ROMEO's dagger
Except she bend her humour, shall be assured
Well, the fuel is gone that maintained that fire:
would change my humanity with a baboon.
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber
[Aside]  That will not be in haste.
But must be, will his free hours languish for
It shall be so, it shall be so.
As if you were a god to punish, not
Datchet-lane: they took me on their shoulders; met
Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
Heaven is above all yet; there sits a judge
Stay yet. You vile abominable tents,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
No, sir, there are moe with him.
To have turn'd my leaping-time into a crutch,
who, being more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind,
When shall you see me write a thing in rhyme?
That steals the colour from Bassanio's cheek:
And stemming it with hearts of controversy;
say an old man is twice a child.
Let it not enter in your mind of love:
Ay, boy, grow ye so brave?
Your lady's person: is she ready?
Les doigts? ma foi, j'oublie les doigts; mais je me
As would take in some virtue. O my master!
No more than to be Cawdor. Say from whence
purpose, confess thyself--
he married but his occasion here.
And bring our emperor gently in thy hand,
Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill
To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart:
For wise men say it is the wisest course.
Thus to excuse yourself.
Exit
The very principals did seem to rend,
See, Caesar! O, behold,
Her heart inform her tongue,--the swan's
new ship to purge melancholy and air himself: for,
Come you, my lord, to see my open shame?
Nor heady-rash, provoked with raging ire,
SCENE X. Another part of the plains.
And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
There's letters from my mother: what the import is,
Were I like thee, I'ld throw away myself.
In Hector's wrath.
Vagabond exile, raying, pent to linger
Brief as the lightning in the collied night,
How Falstaff, varlet vile,
Know you not he has?
That in such haste I sent to seek his master!
As I for praise alone now seek to spill
'There dwelt a man in Babylon, lady, lady!'
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
Of this new sect? ye are not sound.
I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports:
Sorry I am my noble cousin should
and that I hope is an unmeasurable distance.
he would quickly have the gift of a grave.
Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go farther
And by that name must die: yet, heaven bear witness,
travel; it might pass: yet the scarfs and the
Macbeth does murder sleep', the innocent sleep,
And with your puissant arm renew their feats:
Writ in remembrance more than things long past:
A rare talent!
Troilus, farewell! one eye yet looks on thee
Be executed in his father's sight.
Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom;
I mean, that my heart unto yours is knit
O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine;
Can truly say he gives, if he receives:
So worthy as thy birth.
CAMILLO, FLORIZEL, and PERDITA come forward
summer's day; a most lovely gentleman-like man:
Once more, well met at Cyprus.
Spring come to you at the farthest
Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
Hold, patience!
The shrug, the hum or ha, these petty brands
More moving-delicate and full of life,
I see thy grieved heart: thy sad aspect
limb or joint, shall pass Pompey the Great; the
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
We grant thou canst outscold us: fare thee well;
And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
Thanks, sir: the like to you!
As therein are set down.
Shall take upon 's what else remains to do,
In this appeal as thou art all unjust;
To LAVINIA
I would that I were low laid in my grave:
not mark that?
And wilt thou still be hammering treachery,
'Tis now the king's, and call'd Whitehall.
Why, this is kindly done.
Cesario, by the roses of the spring,
[Reads]  'By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the
despite of a fall. But, turning these jests out of
His business more material.
Have I deserved at your highness' hands.
In second accent of his ordnance.
Come, come, let's fall in with them.
To God, his sovereign and to him disloyal;
As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself
O me, with what strict patience have I sat,
Ay, mistress bride, hath that awaken'd you?
Re-enter three Citizens more
It appears, by his small light of discretion, that
I'll tell my husband, Launcelot, what you say: here he comes.
[Within]  Ho! Peace be in this place!
Though ne'er so cunningly you smother it.
give him some good counsel, for he seems to have the
Now, God save thy life!
The whilst his iron did on the anvil cool,
And Florence is denied before he comes:
Deliver'd strongly through my fixed teeth,
your voices! Come, Audrey.
Of any bold or noble enterprise,
tres-puissant seigneur.
The birds chant melody on every bush,
The swelling difference of your settled hate:
Our offices and what we have to do
Fie, de la Pole! disable not thyself;
mayor's sword borne before us.
hose in France, his bonnet in Germany and his
So with his steerage shall your thoughts grow on,--
Exit
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Losing both beauty and utility.
[Aside]  I'll meet you at the turn. What a
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;
And that we are most lofty runaways.
Our guider, come; to the Roman camp conduct us.
Not so, my lord; a twelvemonth and a day
Lest with this piteous action you convert
When remedies are past, the griefs are ended
cannot cog and say thou art this and that, like a
I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle.
The sole drift of my purpose doth extend
No earthly mean to save him, but that either
Enter BENEDICK
Here, madam.
And, stickler-like, the armies separates.
You may command us, sir.
To answer their suspicion with their lives.
Make it so known.
And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!
Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
This, my lord.
What great hope have you! no hope that way is
ANTIPHOLUS
old man: but I came from her, Master Brook, like a
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
I have no tongue but one: gentle my lord,
He doth rely on none,
Why then,
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
That he is dead, good Warwick, 'tis too true;
Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more?
Methinks thy voice is alter'd; and thou speak'st
Of gleaning all the land's wealth into one,
but 'tis a Valentine.
grace say Amen to it.
A merrier hour was never wasted there.
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
E'en a crow o' the same nest; not altogether so
pathetical!
A sheep-cote fenced about with olive trees?
it is no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and fun
That cause sets up with and against itself!
That grows not in a fair consent with ours,
You have, my lord: would it might please your grace,
To tell them that this world did equal theirs
For making me, so young, so old a widow!
More longing, wavering, sooner lost and worn,
How 'scapes he agues, in the devil's name?
well cut,' he would answer, I spake not true: this
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
transformation!
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
Exit LUCIUS
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
Mars his true moving, even as in the heavens
Exit CLAUDIO
Whew! A plague upon you all! Give me my horse, you
Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
Since once I sat upon a promontory,
Like him you are: did you not name a tempest,
What know believe, and what I can redress,
Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
As many as you please.
And bring thy news so late?
That thou dost love my daughter from thy soul:
Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last,
I'll not be struck, my lord.
Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome?
Richard, thy wife, that wretched Anne thy wife,
They say you are a melancholy fellow.
out of prawls, and prabbles' and quarrels, and
No, by mine honour, but I was bid to come for you.
Cousin, farewell: what presence must not know,
Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends.
Towards our assistance we do seize to us
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
No ceremony that to great ones 'longs,
Varro's
As shall be proved upon you?
Give me your hand, Bassanio: fare you well!
Exeunt
And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine;
And this, and this, the greatest discords be
Enter JULIET
Far in the fresh lap of the crimson rose,
Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company
My masters of Saint Alban's, have you not beadles in
Exit
The even virtue of our enterprise,
I am come to survey the Tower this day:
Go give him courteous conduct to this place.
away all night.
Is the obedience to a master, one
And Tom bears logs into the hall
And did upbraid me with my father's death:
Hast thou no suit against my knight, my
out o' the band: I think I have his letter in my pocket.
Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love;
I'll know his humour, when he knows his time:
There, There, Hortensio, will you any wife?
Your grace is grown so pleasant.
I pray you, let me look upon the bond.
No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay:
The winds of March with beauty; violets dim,
Like one well studied in a sad ostent
And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
Come hissing in upon 'em,--
the heels for a rabbit-sucker or a poulter's hare.
And I must freely have the half of anything
Unmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refrain,
Not stingless too.
entirely drunk. We have very oft awaked him, as if
I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion,
The ship is under sail, and here she comes amain.
and doublets.
Come, side by side together live and die.
Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.
Old Mantuan, old Mantuan! who understandeth thee
Stand, ho! yet are we masters of the field:
The time seems long; their blood
O perjured woman! thou dost stone my heart,
You smell this business with a sense as cold
Enter MERCADE
Ever shall in safety rest.
This, fellow: what wouldst?
As much to you at home! and so, farewell.
The better act of purposes mistook
That thou thyself was born in bastardy;
Were in his time thought false, and Sinon's weeping
the dog?' 'Ay, marry, do I,' quoth he. 'You do him
Sir, it was I.
Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
And on this couple drop a blessed crown!
Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth,
Even where his lustful eye or savage heart,
I be not thine. To this I am most constant,
Any of these ways are yet better than this;
And see his shipwreck and his commonweal's.
Now, by the faith of my love, I will: tell me
This is much credit to you.
I know not, lady.
Such wind as scatters young men through the world,
I have no words:
And, from the place where you behold us now,
Money, youth?
That I revived, and was an emperor.
And thereupon I drew my sword on you;
Petruchio, stand by a while.
Yea, an 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for
good nor harm: but he seeks their hate with greater
Lead, monster; we'll follow. I would I could see
Then marvel not, thou great and complete man,
She is a theme of honour and renown,
Proud setter up and puller down of kings!
And underneath that consecrated roof,
BERTRAM.
Arraign her first; 'tis Goneril. I here take my
PROLOGUE
prayers are he may, let me desire you to make your
O Seigneur Dieu, je m'en oublie! de elbow. Comment
Do you hear how he misplaces?
That we come short of our suppose so far
Have to the full appeach'd.
What is her name?
Fly, brother. Torches, torches! So, farewell.
I took by the throat the circumcised dog,
Adder, Spider,
She's with the lion deeply still in league,
And the desire of the nobles.
Hath heard of great Augustus: Caius Lucius
Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
[To TROILUS]  My well-famed lord of Troy, no
and on at pleasure.
'In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant:'
With profitable labour, to his grave:
As zephyrs blowing below the violet,
possessed with a fury, exceeds her as much in beauty
If you have any justice, any pity;
I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.
Will you not eat your word?
And make my misery serve thy turn: so use it
Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
You hold a fair assembly; you do well, lord:
The wounded chance of Antony, though my reason
If you'll employ me to him.
Good my lord,
I am a very villain else.
From Alcibiades to Timon's cave,
the excellency of her honour, that the folly of my
My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirr'd;
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
before the report come. If there be breadth enough
Promotion follows. If I could find example
The gods preserve you both!
He made you for a highway to my bed;
Madam, my lord your father would speak with you.
Which is our honour, bitter torture shall
Copp'd hills towards heaven, to tell the earth is throng'd
Lest Rome herself be bane unto herself,
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow!
Their money out of hope they may believe,
they should exhibit their petitions in the street?
By gar, I see 'tis an honest woman.
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous,
the old Robin Hood of England: they say many young
You heard her say herself, it was not I.
I left behind an ancient substitute:
I will give you the minstrel.
I'ld have you do it ever: when you sing,
at the brow.
Did he write this?
A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
to exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour, to
saving faith within me tells me thou shalt, I get
To the platform, masters; come, let's set the watch.
Your bounty, virtue, fair humility:
Then linger not, my lord, away, take horse.
When the tongue's office should be prodigal
But yet be wary in thy studious care.
Re-enter PUCK
My lord, most humbly on my knee I beg
To do this when I bade thee? Do it at once;
Madam, I'll take my leave.
Which, slanderer, he imitation calls,
'Tis time to part.
eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
The trumpet sounds a parley
Doth any here know me? This is not Lear:
He brings great news.
A thousand hearts are great within my bosom:
in some of your coats for two pence.
That keeps you in the house, and not your own.
So I bequeath a happy peace to you
Mistress Page, remember you your cue.
The moon was a month old when Adam was no more,
His issue disinherited should be;
With his own hand did slay his youngest son,
and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging.
Then, lest he may, prevent. And, since the quarrel
head and a capon; the which if I do not carve most
I thank you. Fare you well.
By reason of his adversary's odds:
On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury.
Lets fall his sword before your highness' feet,
And an old hare hoar,
For thy great bounty, that not only givest
I partly guess; for I have loved ere now.
Here comes the almanac of my true date.
not, she has the mends in her own hands.
tongues into those wounds and speak for them; so, if
I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly
'Tis more than you deserve;
But is it true? or else is it your pleasure,
son and scared my choughs from the chaff, I had not
The gain I seek is, quiet in the match.
the year! we'ld find no fault with the tithe-woman,
Are these thy bears? we'll bait thy bears to death.
Marry, beshrew my hand,
Sir tell me not of the father; I do fear colourable
would take her with all faults, and money enough.
Madam, by chance but not by truth; what though?
fragment, some slender sort of his remainder: the
Beside, my lord, the sooner to effect
What moves Ajax thus to bay at him?
Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him
This is the fairy land: O spite of spites!
The enmity and discord which of late
thing about him. Good, then; if his face be the
Why think you so?
Till I have used the approved means I have,
A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle,
was in the basket!
would of--I'll beat him, an if I could but meet him again.
Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts,
She questionless with her sweet harmony
While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou
are born to do benefits: and what better or
hath, at a word, he hath, believe me: Robert
Go, Sir Andrew: scout me for him at the corner the
How! poor? look upon his face; what call you rich?
suspicion is not without wit and judgment. But,
Remove you hence: I knew you at the first
Throws the meat,  and c. about the stage
Peace!
cat,--but not a musk-cat,--that has fallen into the
Are capable of this ambition,
that we know one another.
Dead Caesar's trencher; nay, you were a fragment
Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope,
Your hidden worthiness into your eye,
But that slander, sir,
I pray you, is my master yet return'd?
Which in a napkin being close convey'd
Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!
O, that I had her here, to tear her limb-meal!
I warrant you.
Shall keep us both the safer: where we are,
de, do de, do de. Bless thee from whirlwinds,
attempted? Love is a familiar; Love is a devil:
There's time enough for that;
May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
From the east to western Ind,
Exit Moonshine
my father's ambition! he was thinking of civil wars
intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall
Should the approach of this wild river break,
Ay.
But time will not permit: all is uneven,
Now here's another discontented paper,
Not my desert.
Enter HUBERT and Executioners
A place whereto you'll go?
war, and in the derivation of my birth, and in
Romans, make way: the good Andronicus.
I do repent me, as it is an evil,
Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
Re-enter SEYTON
Katharina the curst!
occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no
heating of the oven and the baking; nay, you must
Do hiss me into madness.
I thank you for your pains and courtesy.
Will in concealment wrap me up awhile;
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives,
By Jupiter! forgot.
And to be talk'd with in sincerity,
My lady is bespoke.
Within the infant rind of this small flower
To other friends; and so farewell, Sir Michael.
Sends word of all that haps in Tyre:
What foul play had we, that we came from thence?
Those that are in extremity of either are abominable
Have given myself the cause.
brought to pass under the profession of
I can o'ersway him; for he loves to hear
and honourable personages than the commission of your
Thanks to you all, and leave us: fare you well.
For Somerset, off with his guilty head.
Alarum: excursions, wherein JOHN TALBOT is hemmed about, and TALBOT rescues him
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
Their sacred wills be done! Go, get aboard;
And wander we to see thy honest son,
there's money for thee.
your victuals: come, there is sauce for it.
for you: you have a new mistress.
You may guess quickly what.
For your good host; pray that the right may thrive:
Where is kind Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?
But yet let reason govern thy lament.
Fall asleep, or hearing, die.
Shall fly out of itself: nor sleep nor sanctuary,
To bed! ay, sweet-heart, and I'll come to thee.
This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
That were with him exiled. This to be true,
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
Convert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it.
I never robb'd the soldiers of their pay,
and master?
I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam,
many of these lisping hawthorn-buds, that come like
And if King Edward be as true and just
which is left of him what he is, fetch me to the
SCENE XV. The same. A monument.
[Reads]  'This fail you not to do, as you will--'
To faithful service of your majesty.
Speak within door.
And yet take this again; and yet I thank you,
May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril:
Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend,
Were but the outside of the Roman Brutus,
Of being tyrannous, since we so openly
What the good-year, my lord! why are you thus out
Round even to faultiness.
Even in their throats that have committed them.
'Faith, there's no way to be rid on't but by the
And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
The spring is near when green geese are a-breeding.
His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide
O, stand up blest!
Madam, it is, so you stand pleased withal.
Being but fourth of that heroic line.
That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
the ass: if thou wert the ass, thy dulness would
word might make my sister wanton. But indeed words
Some griefs are med'cinable; that is one of them,
Master, Sir Thurio frowns on you.
What, ho! no watch? no passage? murder! murder!
To all the rout, then hold me dangerous.
And daily new exactions are devised,
Abate thy valour in the acting it.
Than any that draws breath in Italy.
To free us from his father's wrathful curse,
And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony,
And the exchange my brother! Here, in the sands,
SCENE IV. The Queen's closet.
Who takes offence at that would make me glad?
Pays dear for my offences.
Argued betwixt the Duke of York and him;
I know not at whose suit he is arrested well;
He named Sebastian: I my brother know
I'll give thee a wind.
Trumpets sound. Exeunt
I long to know the truth hereof at large.
By no assay of reason: 'tis a pageant,
I' faith, I fear it has.
Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away,
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
Two of them have the very bent of honour;
Since Leonatus's false.
Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress:
I go; and if you plead as well for them
Thou drown the sad remembrance of those wrongs
mother shall bring from him: there is no more mercy
Quoth she, 'Here's but two and fifty hairs on your
If there be any cunning cruelty
Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.
I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
Enter EDWARD, running
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge:
Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
But shall it be that you, that set the crown
At your important letters,--this ill day
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Shed for my thankless country are requited
O'ermount the lark. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon:
Then let her alone.
I have drunk but one cup to-night, and that was
sworn brother, the people, to earn a dearer
Slander her love, and he forgave it her.
Achilles bids me say, he is much sorry,
Of capital treason we arrest you here.
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd.
But he, poor soul, by your first order died,
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
Ay, ay: O, lay me by my mistress' side.
Can nothing speak? Master, shall I strike?
I think I did, sir; I deny it not.
When one is one too many? Go, get thee from the door.
[Giving his petition]  Against my master, Thomas
Ay, but the feet were lame and could not bear
And makest conjectural fears to come into me
Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,
Here, sir: I'ld have beaten him like a dog, but for
Finding thee fit for bloody villany,
But thou art deeper read, and better skill'd
How can these things in me seem scorn to you,
All the power of his wits have given way to his
And when the morning sun shall raise his car
To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!
We have compounded on.
What shouts are these? The other side o' the city
Be angry, and dispatch. O, couldst thou speak,
thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
Lost, and recover'd in a day again!
Ford differs! To thy great comfort in this mystery
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.
And kill the bees that yield it with your stings!
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock
Our title to the crown and only claim
Hark! Peace!
And by how much she strives to do him good,
ACT III
All which we pine for now: and this report
For, ere the six years that he hath to spend
I could not miss my way: will poor folks lie,
Aside to MISTRESS FORD
spirit--give thee thy due--and one that knows what
And shall she carry this unto her grave?
To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently--
'Tis nobly spoken:
Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity,
be, give it me, for I am slow of study.
As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
his horn full of good news: my master will be here
My Lord of Buckingham, if my weak oratory
solemness out o' door. and go along with us.
And reason says you are the worthier maid.
SCENE IV. GLOUCESTER's garden.
world he is: if I find a hole in his coat, I will
word of mouth; set upon Aguecheek a notable report
Even as she speaks, why, their hearts were yours;
sufferance is a gain to them Let us revenge this with
To hold you in perpetual amity,
But tell me, dost thou know my lady Silvia?
You have done wrong to this my honest friend,
you a dozen of shirts to your back.
Friends am I with you all and love you all,
O, me!
have it to buy gingerbread: hold, there is the very
Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care,
I go.
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
I have a daughter, sir, called Katharina.
Why we ascribe it to him; yet all his virtues,
Let all the rest give place.
but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and being
To me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit;
To the mines! tell you the duke, it is not so good
Why dost not speak? what, deaf? not a word?
Monday, my lord,
Ah, sirs, consider, he that set you on
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.
A limbeck only: when in swinish sleep
Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
How if fair and foolish?
Your changed complexions are to me a mirror
Than one that's sick o' the gout; since he had rather
That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
It's sign she hath been liberal and free.
I'll tell you news indifferent good for either.
Exit
The gods have well prevented it, and Rome
Prove but our marriage lawful, by my life
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:
I shall, my lord.
[Aside]  Clubs, clubs! these lovers will not keep
This morning are they fled away and gone;
Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
And I shall lose my life for want of language;
Insisture, course, proportion, season, form,
My tailor made them not.
'Tis past enduring.
Come hither, Isabel.
Stay, my lord,
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed
Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf
And his whole kingdom into desolation.
O, my heart!
Till which encounter,
Know you of this taxation?
Believe not that the dribbling dart of love
I will go eat with thee and see your knights.
Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it,
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip,
And perish constant fools. Who is't can blame him?
Now present here together: that's to say,
Dear general, I never gave you cause.
There are that dare; and I myself have ventured
And let us once again assail your ears,
In Sicyon:
Thy grave is digg'd already in the earth.
It is so varied, too; for it was proclaimed 'virgin.'
Achilles, Ajax, who wears his wit in his belly and
More than our brother is our chastity.
Show us the way, sir.
By your leave, ho!
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
That lays strong siege unto this wretch's soul.
bidding of a monarch and his countenance enforces homage.
Leaving them but the shales and husks of men.
O you panderly rascals! there's a knot, a ging, a
If they perceive dissension in our looks
could come to such honour!
yet: suffer us to famish, and their store-houses
A business for yourself, pray heaven you then
With an unslipping  knot, take Antony
scarce to be worth talking of: therefore draw, for
No.
at curfew, and walks till the first cock; he gives
Where is but a humour or a worm.
Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
that you have said.
Most meet
Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
merry host hath had the measuring of their weapons;
At his house this night.
So it may prove an argument of laughter
Ah, barbarous villains! hath this lovely face
Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye:
No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves
Good cousin, be advised; stir not tonight.
streets, and no man regards it.
You are in the right. Good night, lieutenant; I
You must think, if we give you any thing, we hope to
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
All this I speak in print, for in print I found it.
Looks on alike. Will't please you, sir, be gone?
He shall to Parthia. Be it art or hap,
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
You do not understand yourself so clearly
this hot weather. And I think this word 'sallet'
Come, let's fall to; and, gentle girl, eat this:
Newly alighted, and come to visit you.
Would have flung from him, but, indeed, he could not:
And I did yield to him: but the next morn betimes,
And in their steads do ravens, crows and kites,
From the possession of this heavenly sight!
incarnate.
Exit
If thou beest Trinculo, come forth: I'll pull thee
O virtuous fight,
Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear,
Prescribe to other as each other's leech.
Enter RATCLIFF
[Within]  My lord, my lord,--
And that a winged Mercury did bear:
Where the dead corpse of Bassianus lay:
Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming,
I'll not endure it. Would I were satisfied!
When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,
So sought'st to hinder.
Awake, awake, English nobility!
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
A kissing traitor. How art thou proved Judas?
Of the grave wearers. O, the sacrifice!
Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard,
'And shall!' what villain was it that spake
little nearer this ways:--I myself dwell with master
With those that I saw suffer: a brave vessel,
And punish them to your height of pleasure.
war-like, court-like, and learned preparations.
And blown with restless violence round about
Ay, every man away:
That o'er the green corn-field did pass
We pray with heart and soul and all beside:
No more, I pray,--and he's a steward.
take't of my soul, my lord leans wondrously to
Sirrah Grumio, go to your mistress;
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee:
No, it is Casca; one incorporate
On the curl'd clouds, to thy strong bidding task
in the point; poor jade, is wrung in the withers out
Shall be their father's bail; and bane to those
Do we so.
Distinction should be rich in. Where? how lived You?
Shall of a corn cry woe,
Here let them end it; and God defend the right!
have neither words nor measure, and for the other, I
me more wit than ever I learned before in my life;
women in men's apparel, and smell like Bucklersbury
To make me slave to it; and for your sake
Which busy care draws in the brains of men;
It is enacted in the laws of Venice,
Ay, my liege, so please you give us leave.
The ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
He is not Hector.
And interchangeably set down their hands,
That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be
Of all the learned and authentic fellows,--
Art not one?
To voice him consul: lay the fault on us.
Though ink be made of gall.
Nothing!
At wakes and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs;
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
'Tis pride that pulls the country down;
By treason, falsehood and by treachery,
Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
Grandam, one night, as we did sit at supper,
SCENE I. A plain near Mortimer's Cross in Herefordshire.
As shall conveniently become you there:'
Unless the deed go with it; from this moment
'Tis Nestor right. Now play him me, Patroclus,
When I said, banish him, I said 'twas pity.
He was the first that ever bore arms.
good leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a
The seeming sufferances that you had borne,
But as a discontented friend, grief-shot
As matching to his youth and vanity,
A' shall not tread on me;
'Tis like enough, for I stay dinner there.
God be wi' you, my lord! we came but to tell you
Please you, I'll tell you as we pass along,
That I must draw this metal from my side
Then leave me not, my lords; be resolute;
Of which if you should here disfurnish me,
We'll say our song the whilst. Brother, begin.
Shall be applied: for us we will resign,
[Aside to her sons]  What say you, boys? will you
We must suggest the people in what hatred
Sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remercimens; et
A grave.
Exit
Why, then you left me--O, the gods forbid!--
Unto the shore, to ask those on the banks
Nor great Alcides, nor the god of war,
ACT I
Nor tempt the danger of my true defence;
How fares my gracious sir?
I give consent to go along with you,
Exit
What, is he angry?
Passion as they, be kindlier moved than thou art?
Lucius!
And twangling Jack; with twenty such vile terms,
Then with the losers let it sympathize,
Good night: I prithee, come.
I care not, I, knew she and all the world:
Of all encertainties himself commended,
thou, that my master is become a notable lover?
I could not find him at the Elephant:
Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
Had I but seen thy picture in this plight,
O, then it moved her.
Her silence flouts me, and I'll be revenged.
me his natural brother: therefore use thy
SCENE I. Before LEONATO'S house.
Gloucester,'
The confirmation of my promised gift,
Drum. Enter CADE, DICK the Butcher, SMITH the Weaver, and a Sawyer, with infinite numbers
Pardon us, sir; with us at sea it hath been still
I am to thank you for 't.
Exit ALEXAS
Even he, sir; did you know him?
And now they never meet in grove or green,
My master, Sir John, is come in at your back-door,
on. She hath made me four and twenty nose-gays for
Belike, some noble gentleman that means,
ANTONY, OCTAVIUS, and LEPIDUS, seated at a table
fond; but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
Look he's winding up the watch of his wit;
The savage bull may; but if ever the sensible
Full of crusadoes: and, but my noble Moor
As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
lousy, pragging knave, Pistol, which you and
To whom with all submission, on my knee
By the Lord, I knew ye as well as he that made ye.
SCENE I. Britain. Before Cymbeline's palace.
Varro's Servant	I fear it.
And shall continue our graces towards him.
hair and prove a bald jerkin.
A ripe age. Is thy name William?
Were crack'd of kitchen-trolls, or his description
What's the matter now?
deservest it.
wager, first begins to crow?
Mangling by starts the full course of their glory.
Whose passage, vex'd with thy impediment,
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
Breathless and bleeding on the ground. Art
Be cross'd with slowness; labour be his meed!
What's in his heart; and that is there which looks
What, Jessica!--thou shalt not gormandise,
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
Which was so strongly urged past my defence.
for you all; you have horses for yourselves:
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
Which I shall send you written, be assured,
This is my father's choice.
I confess both: they are both the varnish of a
God pardon thee! yet let me wonder, Harry,
And since we have the vaward of the day,
As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard.
And to her white hand see thou do commend
[Looking into the cave]
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
And prophesying with accents terrible
With such a costly loss of wealth and friends:
in a thatched house!
What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
An you re us and fa us, you note us.
Montano and myself being in speech,
Even in the force and road of casualty.
will. What shalt thou exchange for rags? robes;
Which we devise him.
If after every tempest come such calms,
The day, my friends and all things stay for me.
Exeunt
they are committed; and, to conclude, what you lay
that knew how to love himself. Ere I would say, I
That he hath a neighbourly charity in him, for he
The wrinkles in my brows, now filled with blood,
Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?
Never crave him; we are definitive.
Why, all delights are vain; but that most vain,
he will make. Well I am sorry for your niece. Shall
Express impatience, lest you stir up mine.
Sir, as I told you always, her beauty and her brain
Lucius the Roman, comes to Milford-Haven
Who's there?
With groaning wretches; and your task shall be,
Winner and loser?
What paper were you reading?
I do, Mark Antony.
But, thieves, unworthy of a thing so stol'n,
Here is the will, and under Caesar's seal.
Looks fearfully in the confined deep:
Her and her fortunes: none would look on her,
Being naked, sick, nor fane nor Capitol,
That doth not smack of observation;
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
Enter PUBLIUS and others
Give me your gloves, I'll wear them for your sake;
As you would to your friend.
Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
Come, come away, man; I was sent to call thee.
Still met the king? loved him next heaven?
At Crosby Place, there shall you find us both.
And sworn unto the practises of France,
O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings. Dear
And range with humble livers in content,
But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong,
Let me commend thee first to those that shall
How doth the prince, and my young son of York?
It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is
favour to you;
Remains in use with you. Our Italy
Holds from all soldiers chief majority
That the earth owes. I hear it now above me.
Ha! Marcius coming home!
Well, my lord.
Ay, sir, you shall find me reasonable; if it be so,
Makes the survivor heir of all.
What monster's her accuser? Leonatus,
Being free from vainness and self-glorious pride;
Here comes the queen, whose looks bewray her anger:
The king doth smile at; and is well prepared
Like to a bubbling fountain stirr'd with wind,
He hath confessed: away with him! he's a villain
Not true in love?
A word, good sir;
Over his country's wrongs; and by this face,
Hence, broker-lackey! ignomy and shame
Set less than thou throwest;
Repair'd with double riches of content.
Ay, traitor.
And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.'
Yes, just.
Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming,
I think this upstart is old Talbot's ghost,
What further comes.
How say'st thou, Charles? shall our condition stand?
her that's foul and foolish?
confirm my speech.
'She died by foul play.'
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
Standing on slippers, which his nimble haste
Presumes to reach, all thy whole heap must die.
No more talking on't; let it be done: away, away!
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
Who shortly also died: for whose dear love,
Now, as thou lovest me, do him not that wrong
Are then most humble; I have no ambition
I understand thee; thou hadst some means to keep a
The vow is made. Come, brother, take a head;
To think these spirits?
Tell them that God bids us do good for evil:
Nay, it makes nothing, sir.
I tell you what mine authors say:
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
in it five weeks without changing.
That all our swains commend her?
His conquering banner shook from Syria
Sebastian, I have entertained thee,
Till death, that winter, kill it.
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
deserving: you have lost no reputation at all,
When she was dear to us, we did hold her so;
Saucy and overbold? How did you dare
My will, not all the world:
Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
SCENE II. Padua. LUCENTIO'S house.
With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer?
Therefore, great lords, be, as your titles witness,
And so in me; and so, I think, in all:
Look, he recovers.
recompense for your love, to lay any of them on you.
Anne Bullen! No; I'll no Anne Bullens for him:
The people are incensed against him.
is a great argument of falsehood, if I love. And
Indeed, because you are a banish'd man,
Boyet, you can produce acquittances
I had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
Kneel not to me:
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and DORSET
And gave me up to tears.
Where nature doth with merit challenge. Goneril,
On pain to be found false and recreant,
Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
With their refusal, both observe and answer
And then away to Venice to your friend;
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
Did you and he consent in Cassio's death?
Such an immodest raiment, if shame live
A peaceful progress to the ocean.
Of Mantua.
To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March.
Most dignifies the haver: if it be,
What should I say? his deeds exceed all speech:
A madman's mercy bade thee run away.
No, sir, no jot; I know your favour well,
And not upon your maid.
Exit
As lean-faced Envy in her loathsome cave:
Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
And live upon the vapour of a dungeon,
Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'
Decline to your confounding contraries,
In such a night
And carry with us ears and eyes for the time,
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
Made good the passage; cried to those that fled,
Do you know this house to be a place of such resort,
Exit
Exit
That did attend themselves and had the virtue
My reverend father, let it not be so!
And how long lay you there?
The way that they did, and to grin like lions
At many times I brought in my accounts,
wenches' song, that he would not stir his pettitoes
Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
And, sheriff, I will engage my word to thee
Exeunt with trumpets
Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason
In whose comparison all whites are ink,
sea mocked them; and how the poor gentleman roared
And all-thing unbecoming.
And notwithstanding all her sudden quips,
What hath quench'd them hath given me fire.
To have us make denial.
Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake:
To be so pester'd with a popinjay,
As when thy father and myself in friendship
people against the senators, patricians, and nobles.
Qui va la?
No, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.
In sooth, good friend, your father might have kept
A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable;
Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse!
Has business at his house; for all shall stay:
Where but by chance a silver drop hath fallen,
But Exeter hath given the doom of death
I am inform'd that he comes towards London,
I do not talk much.
that tears do not become a man.
Therefore, we banish you our territories:
Corrupting in its own fertility.
Or sleep I now and think I hear all this?
Follow and see there be no harm between them.
For two and twenty sons I never wept,
Let pry through the portage of the head
My wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour,--
Being destined to a drier death on shore.
How can she thus then call us by our names,
Aside
My mistress show'd me thee and thy dog and thy bush.
For lifting food to't? But I will punish home:
And therefore are we certainly resolved
That writes them all alike: and so of men.
This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue
Your officer, Iago, can inform you,--
To amplify too much, would make much more,
Poor Clifford! how I scorn his worthless threats!
How say you, my lord? are you not content?
Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so?
Exeunt ROSALINE and KATHARINE
And here, I take it, is the doctor come.
So please your majesty, my master hath been an
So much the more our carver's excellence;
A contract of true love to celebrate;
I give thee thanks in part of thy deserts,
Aside
Shall Ajax fight with Hector?
Than whereupon our weal, on you depending,
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
To wish me wed to one half lunatic;
What prince is that?
Lock up my doors; and when you hear the drum
without any malice, but to speak of him as my
Are you more stubborn-hard than hammer'd iron?
I do invest you jointly with my power,
hath made her mistress of the feast, and she lays it
Since I have set my friends at peace on earth.
So long as Edward is thy constant friend,
The mansion where!--'twas at a feast,--O, would
From foreign princes.
A general praise to her, and care in us
And reap the harvest which that rascal sow'd;
have named uncertain; the time itself unsorted; and
What, I pray you?
our Roman power: your lord and Titus Lartius are set
If one should be a prey, how much the better
As I am mad, I do:
and, as it were, spoke the prologue of our comedy;
From toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches,
I think, at the north gate; for there stand lords.
I hold you but a subject of this war,
What can be said against me.
She shall not need; we'll meet her in the field.
That I am Viola: which to confirm,
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Then pause not; for the present time's so sick,
Enter Poet and Painter; TIMON watching them from his cave
Be used more thankfully. In himself, 'tis much;
O, could their master come and go as lightly,
Never did faithful subject more rejoice
I cannot kiss, that is the humour of it; but, adieu.
For yonder walls, that pertly front your town,
And what I do imagine let that rest.
Of the death practised duke: for him 'tis well
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK, young YORK, QUEEN ELIZABETH, and the DUCHESS OF YORK
And this the bleeding business they have done:
How you do leave me to mine own protection.
Why, we will set forth before or after them, and
Troilus, by Menelaus.
Show me thy thought.
And fashion your demeanor to my looks,
To do in slander. And to behold his sway,
An army cannot rule 'em.
If where thou art two villains shall not be,
Had I the power that some say Dian had,
entertainment.
Lest, being suffer'd in that harmful slumber,
To them to use your signet and your name;
Fellow, commend my service to her beauty;
A rendezvous, a home to fly unto.
very gallantly maintained the pridge: the French is
All which secure and sweetly he enjoys,
So much from the understanding of himself,
Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord:
Take away this villain; shut him up.
There is but one mind in all these men, and it is
Dies
That diamond upon your finger, say
Welcome hither:
To stop effusion of our Christian blood
[Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this,
'Tis 'long of you that spur me with such questions.
Long withering out a young man revenue.
Retreat sounded
Coldly embracing the discolour'd earth;
God is our fortress, in whose conquering name
Shall mark my grave. Commend me to his grace;
O day untowardly turned!
Do the low-rated English play at dice;
art not thou horrible afeard? thou being
[Aside]        'Twere false, if I should speak it;
'Tis wondrous heavy. Wrench it open straight:
Caesar fell down. If the tag-rag people did not
Walk here i' the orchard, I'll bring her straight.
Well, I must do't:
I prophesied France will be lost ere long.
Puts back leave-taking, justles roughly by
Remaining in the coffer of her friends,
God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
Will not confess he owes the malady
Nay, if you be an undertaker, I am for you.
Away! be gone.
foul breath, and foul breath is noisome; therefore I
Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
Or never after look me in the face:
To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had
You rogue! you rascal!
hereafter, I pray you, mock at 'em; that is all.
Shall be transported presently to France.
O, will you eat no grapes, my royal fox?
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
Conferring them on younger strengths, while we
And thus far having stretch'd it--here be with them--
Which ever since hath kept my eyes from rest;
But what trade art thou? answer me directly.
What is that Barnardine who is to be executed in the
So and no other, as yourself commanded:
Ride on the pants triumphing!
thought not good to bruise an injury till it were
Is this Achilles?
And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps,
You English princes all, I do salute you.
To foreign princes, 'Ego et Rex meus'
I will requite you with as good a thing;
No, my chuck. Eros, come; mine armour, Eros!
must take me up for swearing; as if I borrowed mine
This is the man should do the bloody deed;
There is a remedy, approved, set down,
Do more than this in sport. Father, father!
Before-time seen him thus.
Is come indeed, when I should see behind me
And so she died: had she been light, like you,
clay-brained guts, thou knotty-pated fool, thou
And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin,
Is it possible disdain should die while she hath
The unity and married calm of states
In storms of fortune; for in her ray and brightness
To DUKE SENIOR
My shame will not be shifted with my sheet:
Think every bearded fellow that's but yoked
Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
How goes it now? he looks gentler than he did.
Might happily have proved far worse than his.
DON
The riches of the ship is come on shore!
My duty will I boast of; nothing else.
The taper burneth in your closet, sir.
The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
I was confederate with the Romans: so
I'll prove this truth with my three drops of blood.
And this brave fellow too, we are the grains:
Commend me bountifully to his good lordship; and I
great folk should have countenance in this world to
That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
Of his almighty dreadful little might.
In time of action. I stand condemn'd for this;
Your most sweet voices: now you have left
their wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
I told him that your father was at Venice,
You came in arms to spill mine enemies' blood,
why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is my answer:
Exeunt
What, sir, not yet at rest? The king's a-bed:
your letter.
Thou makest thy bloody pillow? Or who was he
Upon his passion; let myself and fortune
Was as another nature, dumb; outwent her,
To be new-varnish'd! Well, but to my choice:
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
So many journeys may the sun and moon
How's that?
As any mortal body hearing it
The fields are fragrant and the woods are green:
breathes at's nostrils.
With good old folks and let them tell thee tales
You must, if you stay here; for here is the place
thee, Orlando, for my husband: there's a girl goes
As when his virtues shining upon others
in the fountain, and I will do that when you are
What enterprise, Popilius?
If we both stay, we both are sure to die.
That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's
Exeunt MARK ANTONY, EROS, Captains, and Soldiers
Therefore, sweet Proteus, my direction-giver,
I did not think
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
No one but he should be about the king;
Writes not so tedious a style as this.
But why should honour outlive honesty?
Gramercies, good fool: how does your mistress?
Your royal father 's murder'd.
I will not be, though I should win your displeasure
Find them out whose names are written here! It is
if they suffer our departure, death's the word.
her die too, and give him a worse! and let worst
ensnare as great a fly as Cassio. Ay, smile upon
the most comparative, rascalliest, sweet young
Unapt to toil and trouble in the world,
Some six or seven, who did hide their faces
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born,
You more invest it! Ebbing men, indeed,
They lie indrench'd. I tell thee I am mad
Yet let her be a principality,
To lesson me and tell me some good mean
Such and no other than event doth form it,
Forced to retire by fury of the wind:
Yea, 'gainst the authority of manners, pray'd you
With open outcry toward our monument.
That thou commend it strangely to some place
'Odours,' 'pregnant' and 'vouchsafed:' I'll get 'em
rather--saving reverence of the word--for 'tis said
with me: I'll tell you all, Master Brook. Since I
For worse than Philomel you used my daughter,
It shall be speeded well.
Give me your hand: before this holy friar,
Though first in question, is thy secondary.
I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
For aught I see, this city must be famish'd,
a difference. There's a daisy: I would give you
That he would labour my delivery.
As gentle and as jocund as to jest
Is she not passing fair?
Were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
At difference in thee: out of that I'll work
Looking on QUEEN ANNE
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it be
Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,
That stands upon the swell at full of tide,
Savagely slaughter'd: to relate the manner,
Sit.
Go; away with her to prison!
Thus have I politicly begun my reign,
I hope the king is not yet shipp'd for Ireland.
Pistol!
Soft! see how busily she turns the leaves!
What service wilt thou do me, if I give them?
For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects,
And I will kiss thy foot: I prithee, be my god.
And when 'tis told, O, that my heart would burst!
By many a dern and painful perch
His old betrothed but despised;
Marry, by these special marks: first, you have
To breakfast once forth of my company.
another, to make me frankly despise myself.
An hour of revels with 'em.
What's here? A scroll; and written round about?
Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit;
To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.
Revenges burn in them; for their dear causes
Here's ado,
Gave Hector a gift,--
Laugh'd in his face; and when with grief he wept,
Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
See where she comes.
Not friended by by his wish, to your high person
Now, the melancholy god protect thee; and the
Ay, marry, was't, and he put it by thrice, every
the dove, crowned with an earl's coronet.
A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!
O, none of both but are of high desert:
Whose love is never link'd to the deserver
By wondering how thou took'st it.
When wit's more ripe, accept my rhymes.
Purchase corrupted pardon of a man,
That when I am in heaven I shall desire
Which then blew bitterly against our faces,
Be't so:
By him that made me, I'll maintain my words
You have simply misused our sex in your love-prate:
What! am I dared and bearded to my face?
The need we have to use you did provoke
One Julia, that his changing thoughts forget,
It shall no longer grieve without reproof.
rumination wraps me m a most humorous sadness.
Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.
As thou'lt desire; and then myself, I chiefly,
Therefore no kiss.
When I desire it too.
no good to us: though the wisdom of nature can
O, say thou for her, who hath done this deed?
Let us be worried and our nation lose
sounder all the next day.
I think I should have told your grace's tale.
thousand; here will be father, godfather, and all together.
O Cassius, I am sick of many griefs.
Fare thee well:
thy hand, celestial; so. Boys of art, I have
The slavish motive of recanting fear,
Ride you this afternoon?
Ten thousand French have ta'en the sacrament
Are not the question here.
I have procured thee, Jack, a charge of foot.
Frowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part;
Sauf votre honneur, le Francois que vous parlez, il
You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby. Come,
Pray you, where lies Sir Proteus?
will thaw.
Sir John and all.
But when he meant to quail and shake the orb,
From our brother England?
No pains, sir: I take pleasure in singing, sir.
Break their talk, Mistress Quickly: my kinsman shall
I will most willingly attend your ladyship.
Beside the haughty protector, have we Beaufort,
Were brought me of your loss and his depart.
The flattering index of a direful pageant;
Ay, if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner
Nay, then,
Something wicked this way comes.
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at
They fight. DOUGLAS kills SIR WALTER BLUNT. Enter HOTSPUR
Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude.
Alarum afar off
That they may fairly note this act of mine!
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
Hooting and shrieking. When these prodigies
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,
Gave sign for me to leave you: so I did;
[Aside]  My tears begin to take his part so much,
But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
I may be heard, I would crave a word or two;
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
Welcome, my good friends!
Thy natural magic and dire property,
But little for my profit: can you think, lords,
'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio,
having no eyes, look you, wept herself blind at my
Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
There's nothing in this world can make me joy:
My lord, your sorrow was too sore laid on,
O barbarous and bloody spectacle!
You must to Parthia: your commission's ready;
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
Now while I speak this, holds his wife by the arm,
The statue is but newly fix'd, the colour's Not dry.
But let the world rank me in register
you seem to say so.
[Aside]             What should this mean?
Grant I may ever love, and rather woo
and I will tell you my drift.
purpose to marry, I will think nothing to any
Will it eat me?
Last in the field, and almost lords of it!
true,--or thereabouts, set down, for I'll speak truth.
Were not in fault, for she was beautiful;
Did you beg any? God forbid!
Now, in the names of all the gods at once,
Sweet Phebe,--
Cannot be border'd certain in itself;
I shall obey you in all fair commands.
Why, they stay at door, sir.
That so her torture may be shortened.
Even now forsake me, and of all my lands
There let him stand, and rave, and cry for food;
To change two dukedoms for a duke's fair daughter.
For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch;
The greatest miracle that e'er ye wrought:
Sir--I thank her--that:
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
Those we profess, peace-makers, friends, and servants.
To such exsufflicate and blown surmises,
Submissive fall his princely feet before,
He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was
First Serving-man	Ay, and the very parings of our nails
But riddle-like lives sweetly where she dies!
a thing of naught.
Enter another Messenger
Hung their heads, and then lay by.
Re-enter Attendants with AARON
You're welcome,
Who ever saw the like? what men have I!
And grant, as Timon grows, his hate may grow
Never was monarch better fear'd and loved
Exposed unto the sea, which hath requit it,
But he, I thank him, gnaw'd in two my cords:
Now to Marina bend your mind,
And at first meeting loved;
Or has given all before, and he begins
Do me this right; hear me with patience.
Than what not stirs. The cry went once on thee,
Hath for your love a great a pang of heart
[Within]  Francis!
Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mustardseed. Pray you,
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
Marry, and shall, and very willingly.
To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother!
Master Parson, quasi pers-on. An if one should be
Let our drums strike.
That curtsy to them, do them reverence,
Lose those he hath won.
within the term of three years, he shall endure such
Or else, when thou didst keep my lambs a-field,
I shall not be his wife.
All is whole;
For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph day.
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
And the poor beetle, that we tread upon,
As fresh as morning dew distill'd on flowers?
'Tis right.
And yet, I think, jet did he never see.
This loathsome sequestration have I had:
Your wisdom may inform you.
Master, here's the gold you sent me for. What, have
SCENE II. Camp near Sardis. Before BRUTUS's tent.
And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.
Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
Enter KENT and OSWALD, severally
She puts her tongue a little in her heart,
What sayest thou, my bully-rook?
He reads the riddle
So, so: well done, well done:
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
Forsook his scene and enter'd in a brake
What may the king's whole battle reach unto?
If Talbot do but thunder, rain will follow.
serving-men in their new fustian, their white
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
All sanctimonious ceremonies may
Could out of thee extract one spark of evil
So, good night unto you all.
Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves
By means whereof his highness hath lost France.
Took it too eagerly: his soldiers fell to spoil,
mortal arbitrement; but nothing of the circumstance more.
Bid ye so far forget yourselves? I gave ye
Let fortune go to hell for it, not I.
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
My parks, my walks, my manors that I had.
And I shall have no power to follow you.
Not so, my lord.
I honour'd him, I loved him, and will weep
Which I must act: briefness and fortune, work!
Like to the Garter's compass, in a ring:
But say, Lucetta, now we are alone,
From whence?
Hollow upon this plain, so many hollow factions.
Hark, hark! I hear
Troilus, I would not have you fight to-day.
I blame not her, she could say little less;
I'll have it so: a little charge will do it.
Your honour not o'erthrown by your desires,
A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend;
That would with treason wound this fair land's peace!
In your embowell'd bosoms, this foul swine
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?
could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues off
You say that Edward is your brother's son:
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
within me.
For eighteen months concluded by consent.
Your breeches best may carry them.
That presently you hie you home to bed.
Come, my old son: I pray God make thee new.
Are arms to princes, and bring joys to subjects.
That will betime, and may by us be fitted.
Tell him there's a post come from my master, with
A gentleman of Tyre; my name, Pericles;
To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes:
Of what, son?
She's limed, I warrant you: we have caught her, madam.
Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow;
O'ertake me, if thou canst; I scorn thy strength.
My lords, forbear this talk; here comes the king.
Woe's scene, world's shame, grave's due by life usurp'd,
I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter
Between the promise of his greener days
Such as the fury of ungovern'd youth
A precious ring, that lightens all the hole,
A shrewd knave and an unhappy.
Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
When vice makes mercy, mercy's so extended,
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
gives rare new liveries: if I serve not him, I
Pray God, he keep his oath!
O masters, if I were disposed to stir
We'll not be long away.
That ever I have felt.
You have my father's house,--But, what? we are friends.
Unpleasing to a married ear!
What wouldst do then, Apemantus?
If without peril it be possible,
The enemy increaseth every day;
More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
Brother, we done deeds of charity;
this applause!
Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
Tawny-finn'd fishes; my bended hook shall pierce
And, soldiers, stay and lodge by me this night.
The senate hath sent about three several guests
His lands then seized on by the conqueror:
And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep.
These fishers tell the infirmities of men;
And do thee favours with my royal hands.
And dangers are to me indifferent.
Where were her life? she durst not call me so,
The gods begin to mock me. I, that now
Exit
Exeunt
The lamps of night in revel; is not more man-like
My lord?
Love me or love me not, I like the cap;
More than the instant army we can make,
That this will prove a war; and you shall hear
And his enforcement of the city wives;
Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing and
But the fair of Rosalind.
Our expectation hath this day an end:
With courtesy and with respect enough;
They advance to another post
What is 'Pourquoi'? do or not do? I would I had
That you shall say my cunning drift excels.
Fine, i'faith!
Like softest music to attending ears!
All causes to the purpose of his speed,
And does he send to me? Three? hum!
Of warlike Lucius, and appoint the meeting
Instance, O instance! strong as Pluto's gates;
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
I'll make a journey twice as far, to enjoy
Be bold in us: we'll follow where thou lead'st,
But that he swore to take, our lives? The law
His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have
redeliver our authorities there
Help, help, help! here's a madman will murder me.
I am the shadow of poor Buckingham,
'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou
Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
How now, Cassio!
Alas, he speaks but for his friend.
it.
To fight for and maintain!
Alas, a kind of godly jealousy--
In such an honour: how may I deserve it
His cuisses on his thighs, gallantly arm'd
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
It is my lady, O, it is my love!
But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar;
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
Here they do the ceremonies belonging, and make the  circle; BOLINGBROKE or SOUTHWELL reads, Conjuro te, and c. It thunders and lightens terribly; then the Spirit riseth
'Tis good we do so.
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
Relates in purpose only to Achilles.
For oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes,
The future in the instant.
Not at all, good lady:
Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
was I with you there for the goose?
I cannot judge: but to conclude with truth,
Collected for this expedition.
Those palates who, not yet two summers younger,
I spy comfort; I cry bail. Here's a gentleman and a
You say you do not know the lady's mind:
Come, bring them away: if these be good people in
We shall not find like opportunity.
For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork
These dead men's tombs.
So, get you gone. If this penetrate, I will
Bettering thy loss makes the bad causer worse:
most weak pia mater.
Prithee, say true.
I'll find a thousand shifts to get away:
May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
Mark how he bears his course, and runs me up
To bear me company and go with me:
To his own use he keeps; and sends me word,
It is the soldier's; I by bargain should
Dies
into some monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what
Come, good Lorenzo. Fare ye well awhile:
In the rare semblance that I loved it first.
Within my soul there doth conduce a fight
Be not as extreme in submission
But that it doth presage some ill event.
How dost thou, Benedick, the married man?
The first and happiest hearers of the town,
And very sea-mark of my utmost sail.
Fight for your king, your country and your lives;
And wander'd hither to an obscure plot,
Rejoiced deliverance more. Blest pray you be,
Go, fellow, go, return unto thy lord;
To thee be worship! and thy saints for aye
In this close walk to satisfy myself,
What think you? may we, with the warrant of
it!
Yes, I do know him well, and common speech
Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof:
Lord Rivers and Lord Grey are sent to Pomfret,
More than the common blocks: not noted, is't,
I will despair, and be at enmity
Enter Captains and Soldiers
BISHOP
Not all the whips of heaven are large enough:
compound of villanous smell that ever offended nostril.
Qualtitie calmie custure me! Art thou a gentleman?
Which else were shame, that then necessity
Shall I be tempted to infringe my vow
His arms in this sad knot.
Hold thy peace:
Hath trifled former knowings.
And, touched with choler, hot as gunpowder,
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
sure, hide himself in such reverence.
And thus I clothe my naked villany
True; save means to live.
Which to you shall seem probable, of every
O, know he is the bridle of your will.
DON
It was so, sir; for she had a green wit.
I will yet do you service.
Conceal them, or thou diest.
When rich ones scarce tell true. To lapse in fulness
As firm as faith.
And then 'twas fresh in murmur,--as, you know,
You shall not make me welcome:
And misbegotten blood I spill of thine,
Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp
Tucket within
Go with me to my chamber, and advise me.
Why, no, sir.
My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.
All lovers young, all lovers must
Nothing but his report.
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
Yes, that I did; but that was but courtesy.
But what of that? Demetrius thinks not so;
Weep our sad bosoms empty.
Peering in maps for ports and piers and roads;
From thee, my boy, and had the maidenhood
The gods confound--hear me, you good gods all--
Let me entreat to know at large the cause
By the good aid that I of you shall borrow,
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
And pray her to a fault for which I chid her.
Alarbus goes to rest; and we survive
Well, welcome, welcome! I have seen the time.
Going
Methinks I do.
Good my lord, pardon me:
Get linen: now this matter must be look'd to,
to be aged in any kind of course, as it is virtuous
So I do, against my will.
Drum within
And wore us out of act. It much repairs me
Not he; the queen.
bottom, like the bay of Portugal.
I pray, talk me of Cassio.
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
Do you neglect them?
Talk thy tongue weary; speak
No, my profound heart: and yet, by the very fangs
Macduff lives in disgrace: sir, can you tell
the rejoicing?
crumbs. A stoup of wine, Maria!
And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,
Here stands a lord, and there a lady weeping;
I will not bandy with thee word for word,
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
Air, would I might triumph so!
you have seen the sequel.
No, my good lord.
I will prevent this, detect my wife, be revenged on
It is great morning, and the hour prefix'd
A truant disposition, good my lord.
I'll break a custom. Is he yet possess'd
point, heel to head; and then, to be stopped in,
With wisdom I might fear, my Doricles,
That bids me be of comfort any more.
Tapster; a poor widow's tapster.
Come thou on my side, and entreat for me,
Have we in hiding us? This way, the Romans
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
It's monstrous labour, when I wash my brain,
you never heard of!
he is but a knight, is a'?
Enter PANDARUS and Troilus's Boy, meeting
And that you would have me to do?
Merry or sad shall't be?
But what serve for the thunder?--Precious villain!
The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,
To one whom they had punish'd.
bread and garlic: say that I said so. Farewell.
Now, fair befal thee, good Petruchio!
The violation of my faith; and then
Do I so? take thou that.
Ay, and I'll give them him without a fee.
shall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of the
But in my garments.
Of that and all the progress, more or less,
My nephew Mutius' deeds do plead for him
No, none, but only a repair i' the dark;
Nor shall not, while I have a stump.
Where, like Arion on the dolphin's back,
SCENE VII. Rome. A public place.
Go and commend me to my brother Cassius;
Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
Dost grant me, hedgehog? then, God grant me too
lost hair of another man.
Ay.
Let me see your eyes;
Can no way change you to a milder form,
And I am ready to put armour on.
Know you what Caesar means to do with me?
Exit
Yes, if it please your majesty.
And every one shall share i' the gains;
Whose fall the mark of his ambition is.
Ajax: it kills sheep; it kills me, I a sheep:
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,
To-morrow, as he purposes.
the spirits o' the dead
By noting of the lady I have mark'd
Can thereto frame his spirit.
Of general ignorance,--it must omit
Sir Eglamour, I would to Valentine,
pound, the last subsidy.
Who's there?
Well, I had rather than twice the worth of her she
Summon a parley; we will talk with him.
Enter HELENA, disguised like a Pilgrim
virtues: yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou
Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here
And, in some sort, these wants of mine are crown'd,
Till his deserts are past, begin to throw
Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,
'Imprimis: She can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse
Why, sir, she's a good creature. Lord Lord! your
And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof;
Save in the constant image of the creature
this gross watery pumpion; we'll teach him to know
Nothing that I respect, my gracious lord.
How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
Wilt please you go, my lord?
And more than carefully it us concerns
If these shows be not outward, which of you
It's heaven's will:
Dauphin, I am by birth a shepherd's daughter,
To the sweet Julia:' that I'll tear away.
though I did.
Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
Fie, Joan, that thou wilt be so obstacle!
Trumpet sounds
stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved your son:
Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.
You all did love him once, not without cause:
Alack, sir, you cannot see your way.
What, shall we toward the Tower? the day is spent.
Upon her nuptial vow, her loyalty,
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
In such a just and charitable war.
than a monkey: I will weep for nothing, like Diana
cooling when 'tis almost an apple: 'tis with him
Dies
Garter, in his coat of arms, and on his
I'll humbly signify what in his name,
Go, Salisbury, and tell them all from me.
report you.
The Roman emperor greets you all by me;
I have a way to win their loves again;
Never saw like thee. Let an old man embrace thee;
Let the first budger die the other's slave,
his land comes to: he will not believe a fool.
Why do you cross me in this exigent?
Exeunt LOVELL and DENNY
Why came I hither but to that intent?
Yes, that thou didst: didst thou see any thing?
And wake him to the answer, think you?
Amen. Where's Achilles?
What, ostler! come away and be hanged!
Is Caesar with Antonius prized so slight?
Does of the shepherds: for his best friends, if they
Till we with trophies do adorn thy tomb.
And now behold the meaning.
How now for mitigation of this bill
Proceeded to you; therefore take your honours.
improvident jealousy? my wife hath sent to him; the
They are in a trunk,
It is enough I may but call her mine.
things answer my mind.
Stand!
For never yet one hour in his bed
And ne'er have spoke a loving word to you;
[Aside]  I know not what impediment this complaint
But mercy is above this sceptred sway;
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons
So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
From the dejected state wherein he is,
And do a deed that fortune never did,
And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her;
His love.
All but new things disdain; whose judgments are
And morsels unctuous, greases his pure mind,
A clip-wing'd griffin and a moulten raven,
And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect
Nay, I am sure she does. She came to him th' other
Makes them thus forward in his banishment.
Must now confess, if they have any goodness,
I' the city of kites and crows.
A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
Is crept into the bosom of the sea;
Nay, good troth.
My fault being nothing--as I have told you oft--
But since unwillingly, take them again.
They are now starved for want of exercise:
Leave all the rest to me.
Make boot of his distraction: never anger
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
Go with me to my tent; where you shall see
And let him take't at worst; for their knives care not,
Sends me a paper to persuade me patience?
Things done, undone: but, if he be at hand,
be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied
Exeunt Gaolers
Therefore, as he is an ass, let him go.
I am best pleased with that.
My youthful travel therein made me happy,
Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
That do converse and waste the time together,
I will, my lord.
I' the parts of France, till term of eighteen months
up--to a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero.
Beseeching him to give her virtuous breeding--
The town is ta'en!
I mean to take possession of my right.
Even he, madam.
As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging
Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side,
This fester'd joint cut off, the rest rest sound;
Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?
CARDINAL
By reason of his absence, there is nothing
With those that have offended: like a shepherd,
But send him back.
Thy oath remember; thou hast sworn to do't:
an erring barbarian and a supersubtle Venetian not
I think so. Kill'd!
Exit
Could not drop forth such giant-rude invention
But when I came unto my beds,
Reward did threaten and encourage him,
How long hath this possession held the man?
Please it your grace, on to the state-affairs:
Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
Farewell: the gods with safety stand about thee!
Then shall we be news-crammed.
Good sir, to the purpose.
when thou gavest thy golden one away. If I speak
So justly to your grave ears I'll present
Too ceremonious and traditional
labour and effect one thing specially.
If the king blame me for't, I'll lay ye all
This other doth command a little door
Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage!
First to my God and next unto your grace.
And I have found Demetrius like a jewel,
For I will buz abroad such prophecies
And by me, had not our hap been bad.
would require is likewise your own benefit.
Because I wish'd this world's eternity.
Enter KING HENRY, BEDFORD, and GLOUCESTER
Patience, good sir,
You would not then have parted with the ring.
The life o' the need: having found the backdoor open
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
they have been up these two days.
Where they're extended; who, like an arch,
A gallant lady. Monsieur, fare you well.
Do not chafe thee, cousin:
And he, and more
here, sir; a man of four-score pound a year; whose
made this treaty.--You and I have known, sir.
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
Yes, I have gained my experience.
she'll be ashamed.
O!
O dear Phebe,
Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
Nay, if I keep not my rank,--
Tempests themselves, high seas, and howling winds,
And our consent, for better trial of you,
Is much beyond our loss. Our hint of woe
Never talk to me; I will weep.
Earl Surrey was sent thither, and in haste too,
And where that you have vow'd to study, lords,
I saw't this morning: confident I am
Be you quiet, monster. Mistress line,
I will not keep this form upon my head,
And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee,
Exeunt
Like to a lonely dragon, that his fen
To do him good?
But you will take exceptions to my boon.
I will not part with a village of it; I will have it
If I do find him fit, I'll move your suit
And make my senses credit thy relation
There is, betwixt that smile we would aspire to,
Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,
The pedlar's silken treasury and have pour'd it
he added to your having; gave you some ground.
Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
Murder not then the fruit within my womb,
Had he been slain, we should have heard the news;
Behold another day break in the east:
My man of men.
Tush, fear not, man; we'll tip thy horns with gold
And better 'twere that both of us did fast,
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:
Roderigo!
Well, you may fear too far.
Why no, you ruinous butt, you whoreson
'Tis figured in my tongue.
Made impudent with use of evil deeds,
To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasures,
I must be brief, lest resolution drop
By gar, 'tis good; vell said.
Exit
out. Well, I'll be revenged as I may.
slept in the contriving of lust, and waked to do it:
Why, I will see thee at Philippi, then.
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth,
At some time when his soaring insolence
Go show your slaves how choleric you are,
Exeunt all but PISANIO
My lord of Kent: remember him hereafter as my
What is your pleasure, madam?
Is all unknown to me, my gracious lady.
That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?
Pardon, my lord.
Their heavy burdens at his narrow gate,
Our Roman hunting.
variance. Antony will use his affection where it is:
The bleeding witness of her hatred by;
Who calls?
Do not say so, Lysander; say not so
Sweet smoke of rhetoric!
worth the eating.
No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she
Of the king's ship
Were man as rare as phoenix. 'Od's my will!
Rome could afford no tribune like to these.
Belike you slew great number of his people.
counsel. I'll in.
Fortune in favour makes him lag behind.
And snarleth in the gentle eyes of peace:
No.
I never sued to friend nor enemy;
False to his children or his wife's allies
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,
By custom and the ordinance of times
And on them shalt thou ease thy angry heart.
Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke
And understand again like honest men;
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
I am sorry, sir, that I have hinder'd you;
That livest to make thine honesty a vice!
Having bound up the threatening twigs of birch,
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA
good compass: and now I live out of all order, out
What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here,
For which I must not plead, but that I am
Noble Sebastian,
More witnesseth than fancy's images
You strike my people; and your disorder'd rabble
The south-fog rot him!
It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks,
Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep,
That were the servants to this chosen infant,
To ratify the work--we may again
Made him give battle to the lioness,
country, there be nothing compelled from the
Why then, we'll make exchange; here, take you this.
Here, my lord, in readiness.
Blows dust in other's eyes, to spread itself;
Give us the swords; we have bucklers of our own.
The law of friendship bids me to conceal;
By what you see them act. Is there not charms
Enter PROTEUS
well: a man may draw his heart out, ere a' pluck
Would from my forehead wipe a perjured note;
What seal is that, that hangs without thy bosom?
Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours;
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
Of such misery doth she cut me off.
This day had plotted, in the council-house
I have kept you next my heart; have not alone
Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year;
I would not shave't to-day.
More than it is ere foul sin gathering head
[Aside to CLEOPATRA]  To make his followers weep.
And they, 'twas they, that did her all this wrong.
companion that you give offence to.
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
The view of earthly glory: men might say,
Welcome, my lord	what is the news?
What say'st thou?
Dies
Bright star of Venus, fall'n down on the earth,
We hope to make the sender blush at it.
Enter to them another Messenger
As is the other for beauteous modesty.
by law: I'll not budge an inch, boy: let him come,
And furious close of civil butchery
Above five hours: see how she gins to blow
seeming, Audrey:--as thus, sir. I did dislike the
Were it the mistress-court of mighty Europe:
Hence! hang not on my garments.
That will be thaw'd from the true quality
Teaching all that read to know
You said you would believe me;
I had most need of blessing, and 'Amen'
That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
Seeing you coming.
Exit ALEXAS
all he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had
I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur
What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my lady
Exeunt
No more, cousin.
Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
Young Edward lives: think now what I would say.
I do entreat your grace to pardon me.
here: pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?
'Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord,
I do love Cassio well; and would do much
And therefore yet relent, and save my life.
Enter BENVOLIO and ROMEO
Methinks I should revive the soldiers' hearts,
There's thy reward: be gone.
Question her proudly; let thy looks be stern:
I tell you all her wealth.
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou
My lord, my lord, the French have gathered head:
it is almost day.
I thank you, valiant Cassio.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Thou art always figuring diseases in me; but thou
None else of name and noble estimate.
And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!
What meanest thou by that? mend me, thou saucy fellow!
Friendship is constant in all other things
Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid
And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord,
Exit DENNIS
And to that woman, when she has done most,
Under these windows, white and azure laced
Mad for thy love?
An if I wist he did,--but let it rest;
O grave and good Paulina, the great comfort
It cannot fail but by
Why, it stood by her: she has light by her
ACT III
Sir, royal sir, forgive a foolish woman:
With his own bolt; the strong-based promontory
The loose encounters of lascivious men:
While I thy amiable cheeks do coy,
One Gilbert Peck, his chancellor--
From heartiness, from bounty, fertile bosom,
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
The scourge of greatness to be used on it;
O, sir, to wilful men,
More than mistrust, that shows him worthy death.
She once being loof'd,
Re-enter LE BEAU
But, as we often see, against some storm,
The very way to catch them.
Truly, an obedient lady:
What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
lord of the council rated me the other day in the
I would dissemble with my nature where
That you would love yourself, and in that love
My lord, I do beseech you, pardon me;
So please your highness to behold the fight.
off his head presently; and then break into his
I am in parliament pledge for his truth
Fetch the will hither, and we shall determine
Incurr'd a traitor's name; exposed myself,
Writ in my cousin's hand, stolen from her pocket,
Come:
Faith, I can cut a caper.
I'll pheeze you, in faith.
barren rascal: I saw him put down the other day
I do beseech your grace to pardon me:
By me that's said or done amiss this night;
Lucius and I'll go brave it at the court:
Why should their liberty than ours be more?
him soundly, sir: well, was it fit for a servant to
Not me begotten of a shepherd swain,
Even so myself bewails good Gloucester's case
And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest,
Therefore this article is made in vain,
Now, sirrah; you do wish yourself in Egypt?
but hurt not.
how can that be true love which is falsely
Which since have steaded much; so, of his gentleness,
That hardly can I cheque my eyes from tears.
Be wisely definite; nor i' the appetite;
Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
And weakling, Warwick takes his gift again;
Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
Stafford, take her to thee.
Varro's
Let him confess a truth.
Get ye all three into the box-tree: Malvolio's
Exit
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
Which troubles oft the bed of blessed marriage,
his destiny with him.
Dost thou infamonize me among potentates? thou shalt
You find him like a soldier: do not take
The worst is death, and death will have his day.
What art thou?
Ay, if Messala will prefer me to you.
Have caused him, by new act of parliament,
So Caesar shall not find them.
When nobles are their tailors' tutors;
Ay, marry, will we, sir; and we'll be waited on.
She for an Edward weeps, and so do I;
Pinch him, and burn him, and turn him about,
These may be counterfeits: let's think't unsafe
There's comfort yet; they are assailable;
broke open my lodge.
Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! I will
And now to London all the crew are gone,
Creating awe and fear in other men?
To PAROLLES
And ask him what's the reason of these arms.
penned, I have taken great pains to con it. Good
to the person written unto: 'Your ladyship's in all
Whither?
Which argued thee a most unloving father.
Have ever made me sour my patient cheek,
No settled senses of the world can match
Come on, Nerissa; I have work in hand
If I could pray to move, prayers would move me:
What is the city but the people?
Didst thou not say he comes?
Villain, thy father was a plasterer;
I was.
Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof!
But Hercules himself must yield to odds;
Ungentle queen, to call him gentle Suffolk!
Now for the bare-pick'd bone of majesty
Madam, here comes my lord.
By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of
For I have seen more years, I'm sure, than ye.
Whose towers bore heads so high they kiss'd the clouds,
Is she not then beholding to the man
Enter the army of the Volsces
That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst
hope, an old man, shall frutify unto you--
I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll
If I owe you any thing, I will pay you in cudgels:
Look on his letter, madam; here's my passport.
Exit JAQUES
Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word?
Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
Go thou: I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
Lest she should be denied.
I know my duty; you are all undutiful:
To be by oath enjoin'd to this. Farewell!
It may not be.
That Tiber trembled underneath her banks,
With such a kind of love as might become
By paved fountain or by rushy brook,
DON
Madam, your penance done, throw off this sheet,
An amber-colour'd raven was well noted.
Re-enter others of the Watch, with FRIAR LAURENCE
affirm it.
should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away
Hold your hand, my lord:
To-morrow will I send.
Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends.
Then, York, unloose thy long-imprison'd thoughts,
Exeunt BASSIANUS and MARCUS with LAVINIA
Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!
Passing through nature to eternity.
This squash, this gentleman. Mine honest friend,
fingering, so; we'll try with tongue too: if none
The naked truth of it is, I have no shirt; I go
My mistress here lies murder'd in her bed,--
When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
white, and cry 'mum;' she cries 'budget;' and by
Yet thus far, Griffith, give me leave to speak him,
Shake thou to look on 't. Get thee back to Caesar,
What is't? a spirit?
I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
Next, he's the governor of this country, and a man
Worthy Othello, I am hurt to danger:
I'll kill my horse, because I will not fly.
And, by God's mother, I, being but a bachelor,
Shall I entreat a word?
Robs me of that which not enriches him
That I will here dismiss my loving friends,
Et tu, Brute! Then fall, Caesar.
And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
and so locks her in embracing, as if she would pin
light is an effect of fire, and fire will burn;
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
mine: wilt thou serve me?
Than any woman in this waning age.
And the device he bears upon his shield
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
Are these, I pray you, wind-instruments?
Come, sir, come;
O thou sweet king-killer, and dear divorce
I know the young gentlewoman; she has good gifts.
intelligence of this whore: the parrot will not
Venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came hither
But will they come when you do call for them?
To the palace, an it like your worship.
Out of your grace, devise, ordain, impose
I cannot tell.
I chose her when I could not ask my father
And fair purgation to the world, than malice,
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged
Should we be silent and not speak, our raiment
grass: and when I am king, as king I will be,--
And not be cheque'd.
let to know it is.
Dear, trouble not yourself: the morn is cold.
'Tis pity she's not honest, honourable:'
At unawares may beat down Edward's guard
were he a horse;
That walked about me every minute-while;
I shall, my lord.
his flesh: what's that good for?
Welcome, young man;
And happier much by his affliction made.
The more it grows and fawneth on her still.
This looks not like a nuptial.
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
Where I may wallow in the lily-beds
I saw our party to their trenches driven,
Nay, that's not so.
All clinquant, all in gold, like heathen gods,
Which by his death hath lost much majesty.
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
Have patience, madam: there's no doubt his majesty
No, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk;
instant, you may, when you hear no more words of
Can be but brief; for I have made him know
I should believe you:
The gods requite his charity!'
A kingdom for a stage, princes to act
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
For herein Fortune shows herself more kind
Then in the midst a tearing groan did break
Being lass-lorn: thy pole-clipt vineyard;
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
You must consider that a prodigal course
Unheard. Lychorida!--Lucina, O
Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
Myself and you, son Harry, will towards Wales,
I doubt not, uncle, of our victory.
Charles, good night.
From whom you claim; invoke his warlike spirit,
Taking off her bracelet
It is our part and promise to the Athenians
With wit or steel?
My speech should fall into such vile success
taken with the cramp was drowned and the foolish
Be drain'd! Let me embrace thee, Ajax:
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
Crying on Hector. Ajax hath lost a friend
He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
That's Hector, that, that, look you, that; there's a
And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell
Make those that do offend you suffer too.
Thy noble deeds as valour's monuments.
Pompey the Great; and Suffolk dies by pirates.
As when a giant dies.
Go I to make the French lay down their arms.
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth,' and
Whose mind and mine, I know, in that are one,
Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee;
Why call you me love? call my sister so.
so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher's
Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat
Will soon be drawn to head, from whence he moves
Upon the gad! Edmund, how now! what news?
Enter a Messenger
cure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept very
While his own lands are bargain'd for and sold.
And well are worth the want that you have wanted.
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
He seems to be a stranger; but his present is
E'er since I can remember.
We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it:
My mistress with a monster is in love.
To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
For Angelo,
Sings
If by which time our secret be undone,
look you, and bid me eat my leek: it was in place
Chaste Dian bathing: never saw I figures
Exeunt KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and SUFFOLK
The grave of your deserving; Rome must know
suffered to bring this woman to evil for your good.
But Margaret was in some fault for this,
Thou mayst co-join with something; and thou dost,
Some bloody passion shakes your very frame:
know my business is but to the court.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
O thou side-piercing sight!
To OLIVER
you a song now.
Art thou not ashamed? But, sirrah, henceforth
I know that voice.
To make this present summons: unsolicited
Reads
And being but a toy, which is no grief to give.
The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras
Up with my tent there! here will I lie tonight;
Is it even so? rewards he my true service
No more dams I'll make for fish
testify your bounty, I thank you, you have testerned
Wherein he might the king his lord advertise
Will Caesar speak?
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
Enter another Gentleman
Sir, shall I to this lady?
Proculeius,
SCENE VII. Before York.
I do not greatly care to be deceived,
When that this body did contain a spirit,
Fidele, sir.
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good night to him
[Aside to MOTH]  Their eyes, villain, their eyes!
Let it presage the ruin of your love
And you recount your sorrows to a stone.
Or any he the proudest of thy sort.
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
There to meet with Macbeth.
Farewell; and if my fortune be not crost,
A day will come when York shall claim his own;
The issue of your proper wisdoms rate,
'We have seen better days.' Let each take some;
I'll keep, if but for sympathy.
From thy admiring daughter took the spirits,
Enter KENT, GLOUCESTER, and EDMUND
Am like to do: take in your arms this piece
you? Show your knave's visage, with a pox to you!
What will I do, thinkest thou?
'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
I'll be with thee betimes.
He hath but as offended in a dream!
I think so.
Does by their own insinuation grow:
And graze in commons.
One, Kate, that you must kiss, and be acquainted with.
I have heard a sonnet begin so to one's mistress.
Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus!
Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
THE FORTUNATE-UNHAPPY.'
For your displeasure; but all will sure be well.
Neither.
Exeunt
when you put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
To slay the innocent? What is my offence?
if my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be
Take her hence:
That with the very shaking of their chains
No, by the flame of yonder glorious heaven,
prince should woo Hero for himself, and having
Pursue her; and for this intelligence
SCENE I. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
And, like Limander, am I trusty still.
Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
Than Cambridge is, hath likewise sworn. But, O,
And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
I'll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital.
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:
As I did him, and speak of something wildly
I know myself now; and I feel within me
With ravishing division, to her lute.
Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou
I will not lend thee a penny.
I humbly thank him, and I thank you all.
frights English out of his wits.
I know the boy will well usurp the grace,
Art thou certain this is true? is it most certain?
us; and is very likely to load our purposes with
Lest my remembrance suffer ill report;
Pray, hear me.
So is he mine; and in such bloody distance,
Wife, children, servants, all
Whoreson dog! I give him satisfaction?
Unto the camp, and profits will accrue.
I know thee now: how farest thou, soldier?
To let me see them and to make me know
To her he hates? and wherefore doth Lysander
So strongly guarded.
Varro's Servant	Is't not your business too?
I fear my Julia would not deign my lines,
I can no longer hold me patient.
Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn;
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
I tell you, madam, were the whole frame here,
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
Put into circumscription and confine
Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
Is by your fancy's thankful doom.
Thou wilt amend thy life?
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
If she first meet the curled Antony,
Let's not confound the time with conference harsh:
There is a brief how many sports are ripe:
To be depender on a thing that leans,
The main consents are had; and here we'll stay
company: banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.
This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
every tongue,
Cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me!
I am unworthy to be Henry's wife.
Dogs! cowards! dastards! I would ne'er have fled,
Three thousand ducats: I'll not answer that:
Ba, most silly sheep with a horn. You hear his learning.
Our neighbour shepherd's son!
Antony,
out heresy. I did converse this quondam day with
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
Dost thou say so?
If thou remember'st not the slightest folly
O, then be bold to say Bassanio's dead!
Exit
in the defence yet is weak: unfold to us some
And my invention thrive, Edmund the base
Lend me thy cloak, Sir Thomas. Brothers both,
Traduced by ignorant tongues, which neither know
'Madam,' and nothing else: so lords
whom Cominius the general is gone, with one part of
His mind so venomously, that burning shame
Thine, as he vowed to thee in thine ear,
Put on what weary negligence you please,
to him again, and he's yours.
To entertain my vows of thanks and praise!
For your physicians have expressly charged,
Upon a lie seven times removed:--bear your body more
Could I with boot change for an idle plume,
My thrice-driven bed of down: I do agnise
To keep her constancy in plight and youth,
'Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens;
Come from country to be judged by you,
None are so surely caught, when they are catch'd,
Truly, sir, I think you'll hardly win her.
But, heaven be thank'd, it is but voluntary.
To speak with Coriolanus.
Wrath makes him deaf: speak thou, Northumberland.
My lords of England, let me tell you this:
The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords.
Thus, like the formal vice, Iniquity,
So is Lysander.
death! Two o'clock is your hour?
My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine:
am undone! I am undone! while I play the good
And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits;
Doth win immortal fame.
To come as humbly as they used to creep
We thank you all.
Lest your displeasure should enlarge itself
Hold your peaces.
But, ere they live, to end.
Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble,
But now thy uncle is removing hence:
Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.
brave mind than a hard hand.
and so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero:
well; Lucifer, well; Barbason, well; yet they are
Exeunt
Save him, save him!
played their parts with Beatrice; and then the two
Disgrace and horror, that, on my command,
nightingale.
Whereto constrain'd by her infirmity,
Why, I tell thee, I care not though he burn himself
That 'gainst the stream of virtue they may strive,
Rear up his body; wring him by the nose.
What else?
Let what is here contain'd relish of love,
Then, taking him from thence that is not there,
I'll be sworn--
SCENE III. The same. A street.
We, poising us in her defective scale,
Help us to sigh and groan,
Were thy commixtion Greek and Trojan so
Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
And I for comfort have but one false glass,
Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia.
Enter Sailors
Frenchmen, I'll be a Salisbury to you:
Most serpent-like, upon the very heart:
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
the gift of fortune; but to write and read comes by nature.
And in my house you shall be friendly lodged:
wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him
And so she doth, cousin.
Breathe out invectives 'gainst the officers.
for, as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man
Is self from self: a deadly banishment!
And ears so cloy'd importantly as now,
As swift as lead, sir.
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
O my dear father! Restoration hang
Now, if you can blush and cry 'guilty,' cardinal,
As he had seen't or been an instrument
That she should feel the smart of this? The cardinal
Of my dear friend. What should I say, sweet lady?
Our Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here,
Shall we call in the ambassador, my liege?
Should not produce fair issue.
place call upon me; and dispatch with Angelo, that
And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
I have seduced a headstrong Kentishman,
Nor yet the other's distance comfort me.
Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son,
But say, I prithee, is he coming home? It seems he
Me seemeth good, that, with some little train,
The greatest is behind.
To trumpet such good tidings! If not well,
My discontented peers! What! mother dead!
So many summers dry; scarce any joy
Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend
With what great state he heard their embassy,
Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?
In seeming to augment it wastes it? Be advised:
To answer such a question: stand again:
How much unlike my hopes and my deservings!
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
A man may break a word with you, sir, and words are but wind,
Above their functions and their offices.
Exeunt Guard
Stain to thy countrymen, thou hear'st thy doom!
As with foul incest to abuse your soul;
Why ask I that? my mangled body shows,
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
And my help.
Beseech you, father.
again, and flourish with the highest. Therefore
Be not her maid, since she is envious;
done? It must be a very plausive invention that
I will catechise the world for him; that is, make
To killen bad, keep good alive;
This servitude makes you to keep unwed.
Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector.
And wish the estate o' the world were now undone.
before such villains! Masters, it is proved already
And what is 'a stone,' William?
his urinals about his knave's costard when I have
Of blind forgetfulness and dark oblivion.
So tender over his occasions, true,
As if I loved my little should be dieted
And to him in his barge with fervor hies.
This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
By the Bishop of Bayonne, then French ambassador;
But screw your courage to the sticking-place,
This is the quondam king; let's seize upon him.
Why, his masculine whore. Now, the rotten diseases
If there be any good thing to be done,
With spur we beat an acre. But to the goal:
SCENE V. Inverness. Macbeth's castle.
shall be the last of the next month. Come,
Ghost beckons HAMLET
I durst not!
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
Crown him and say 'Long live our emperor!'
When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind
Bed, chamber, Pandar to provide this gear!
With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
Not yet, Sir Thomas Lovell. What's the matter?
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet!
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
They sleep
Nay, stay; lets hear the orisons he makes.
Draw the huge bottoms through the furrow'd sea,
dismiss the controversy bleeding the more entangled
Tear him to pieces; he's a conspirator.
Did you not tell me this fat man was dead?
To AEmilius
them and a great cause, they should be esteemed
Be satisfied, dear God, with our true blood,
And these are not fairies? I was three or four
That acts my words. The younger brother, Cadwal,
They can be meek that have no other cause.
To stride a limit.
And whom, by heaven I swear, I tender dearly,
endure cold as another man's sword will: and
If not with vantage, as Demetrius';
And you were Isabel! should it then be thus?
No, my good Lord; he hath forsook the court,
there's no labouring i' the winter. All that follow
And nobleness impose: at least thus much:
Exit OSWALD
Yourself into a power tyrannical;
I was anointed king at nine months old;
And hang their heads with sorrow: good grows with her:
Darkness and devils!
But that I am your most obedient servant.
Exit with Soldiers
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,
Opens the letter, and reads
In this strange stare?
That villanous abominable misleader of youth,
I pray thee, hear me speak.
it pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man
O sinful thought! Never so rich a gem
she is spherical, like a globe; I could find out
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,
Pawn me to this your honour, she is his.
Are partners in the business.
[Within]  Madam!
Go not home.
And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
They all stand ceremoniously looking on TIMON
Lord Cerimon, we do our longing stay
Bliss in our brows' bent; none our parts so poor,
So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling.
How much the quantity, the weight as much,
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
For this is thine and not King Henry's heirs'
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
Hath spoken well and justly: therefore, madam,
Without our grace, our love, our benison.
That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
The bird that hath been limed in a bush,
But if the cause be not good, the king himself hath
thy smiles become thee well; therefore in my
Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman,
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
That answer to them: would you in their serving,
As that same ague which hath made you lean.
Un peu, madame.
That's as much as to say, bastard virtues; that,
Ay, and you hear him cog, see him dissemble,
bill, give me thy mete-yard, and spare not me.
Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me
service,--Why dost thou stop my mouth?
O my brother,
sometimes to see 'em, and not to see 'em; now the
That died in honour and Lavinia's cause.
blame me to piss my tallow? Who comes here? my
Exeunt
Poor worm, thou art infected!
If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound,
Hath kept with thy remembrance.
To think on this, and shall I lack the thought
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
What dish o' poison has she dressed him!
and thaw: it was a miracle to scape suffocation.
DON
Particularities and petty sounds
Hear, nature, hear; dear goddess, hear!
He comes upon a wish. Fortune is merry,
Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an
My liege, here is a villain and a traitor, that,
Look, more!
And yet words are no deeds. My father loved you:
The king to attach Lord Montacute; and the bodies
Helen's cheek, but not her heart,
But, master, if I had been the sexton, I would have
The third possessor; ay, he was the third--
And lawful meaning in a lawful act,
Exit
Or horse or oxen from the leopard,
To raze one title of your honour out:
it hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood,
At this encounter do so much admire
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
I did, my lord: yet let me be their bail;
keeping of wise people; for, indeed, there is no
knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer.
But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks,
For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.
My master sues to her, and she hath
displeasure of the king, who had even tuned his
This was the sport, my lord: when Publius shot,
I am great with woe, and shall deliver weeping.
I pray you, who, my lord?
I recovered it.
Doth shine upon the dead man's earthy cheeks,
Could my good brother suffer you to do it?
And for thy sake have I shed many a tear:
Have you received no promise of satisfaction at her hands?
'Here I give to understand,
If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
To both these sisters have I sworn my love;
What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou,
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
I am not treacherous.
If York, with all his far-fet policy,
Exit PRINCE HENRY
But will you make it even?
And with a look so piteous in purport
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
Bade him anon return and here speak with me;
But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
So strangely in one piece.
The manner of your bearing towards him, with
of remorse in me.
noble lords; you have restrained yourself within the
Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other,
O, sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory,
As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
The consequence is then thy jealous fits
Do love, prize, honour you.
Than for his lineal royalties and to beg
I'ld rather than the worth of thrice the sum,
Patricians, draw your swords: and sheathe them not
I love thee not.
A black day will it be to somebody. Ratcliff!
Remember March, the ides of March remember:
That I this day of him received the chain,
That Cardinal Beaufort is at point of death;
And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
The sleepers of the house? speak, speak!
May never glorious sun reflex his beams
Beats down their swords
awhile with the maid: my mind promises with my
No more my king, for he dishonours me,
Exit ULYSSES
This is the ring you sent to Silvia.
I prize it not a straw, but for mine honour,
Shall's have a play of this? Thou scornful page,
The QUEEN drops the box: PISANIO takes it up
You speak him far.
Come, to the forge with it then; shape it: I would
He is ready at the door: he comes, my lord.
Derive this; come.
Diseases in our bodies: I must perforce
And sweetly felt it.
O, pardon me, Signior Gremio; I would fain be doing.
made the night light with drinking.
By my consent, we'll even let them alone.
No, my most wronged sister; Cleopatra
Music. Re-enter Cupid with a mask of Ladies  as Amazons, with lutes in their hands, dancing and playing
He begg'd of me to steal it.
To souse annoyance that comes near his nest.
A gentleman that well deserves a help:
What feats he did that day: then shall our names.
So come to you and yours, as to this Prince!
Admit me Chorus to this history;
Is kindling coals that fires all my breast,
Every way makes my gain: live Roderigo,
To help him to his grave immediately!
But for thee, fellow; fellow, thy words are madness:
Which he forswore most monstrously to have.
Spit, and throw stone s, cast mire upon me, set
Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
Well, is it, is it?
Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay
it is mended--my quarrel was not altogether slight.
Be friends, for shame, my lords! My Lord of
For God forbid so many simple souls
Either withdraw unto some private place,
No matter, sir, what I have heard or known.
And she is fair, and, fairer than that word,
Reads
speak it to you, I think the king is but a man, as I
He that outlives this day, and comes safe home,
Enter CROMWELL, and stands amazed
darkness. When thou rannest up Gadshill in the
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
Accoutred as I was, I plunged in
fairer face.
The juice of Egypt's grape shall moist this lip:
As truth's authentic author to be cited,
To smooth his fault I should have been more mild:
Thy pupil long? Hast thou not learn'd me how
As Phaethon would whip you to the west,
Will't please you eat? will't please your
Enter GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, ERPINGHAM, with all his host: SALISBURY and WESTMORELAND
And you are come in very happy time,
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
Is that the elder, and art thou the heir?
And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
I play the torturer, by small and small
He seeks my life; his reason well I know:
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
When you come 'cross his humour; faith, he does:
tempted, and he had an excellent strength; yet was
By men of Epidamnum he and I
But lend it rather to thine enemy,
Lame, foolish, crooked, swart, prodigious,
The match between Sir Thurio and my daughter.
To have thee crown'd withal.
Exeunt Musicians
Who's there, ha?
Master Three-pile the mercer, for some four suits of
Now, by my modesty, a goodly broker!
I will help you to't. But tell me true, are you
Which God defend that I should wring from him!
dead, there needs none to be blamed. Marry, if he
Belike you thought our love would last too long,
And so am I, whether I smack or no;
Come, come, you have been too rough, something
Which, without note, here's many else have done,--
The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
Which should be thine or his: silenced with that,
It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark.
Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me:
Enter JOHN MORTIMER and HUGH MORTIMER
SCENE I. The woods. Before Timon's cave.
To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.
Filth, thou liest!
And come to us as favourers, not as foes.
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
An easy task; 'tis but to love a king.
Non eget Mauri jaculis, nec arcu.'
But sound the trumpets, and about our task.
no less esteemed.
O, well said, Lucius!
That next by him beneath; so every step,
The ministration and required office
What didst thou lose, Jack?
Old men and beldams in the streets
I feel master's passion! this slave,
That man of hers, Pisanio, her old servant,
Of many our contriving friends in Rome
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
By him that shall succeed.
Behold, there stand the caskets, noble prince:
Am like a prophet suddenly enrapt
You shall perceive them make a mutual stand,
But now the Duke of Buckingham and I
bowling, it will please plentifully.
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
Well are you welcome to the open air.
My Lord of Surrey, why look you so sad?
That speak against us! A charge we bear i' the war,
Why, this hath not a finger's dignity:
So needful for this present: it strikes me, past
Bend their best studies, heartily request
Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
And then his banishment.
To ope their golden eyes:
Help to cover your master, boy. Call your men,
Deserves thy trust, and thy most perfect goodness
That long to move.
And, Prince of Wales, so dare we venture thee,
Beats him away. Exit third Servingman
Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not
What follows, then, my lord?
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
Send to me in the morning and I'll send it:
He shall espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
Ay, too gentle.
Thou wouldst not have mourn'd so much for me.
To kiss this shrine, this mortal-breathing saint:
Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
Exeunt
Drinks to HORTENSIO
Kneels
Than women's are.
He craves a parley at your father's house,
York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
Here feel we but the penalty of Adam,
Thou hast made me giddy
to steal. There's not a soldier of us all, that, in
you must call forth the watch that are their accusers.
one eye upon my follies, as you hear them unfolded,
And after shipwreck driven upon this shore.
Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
May walk again: if such thing be, thy mother
Sir?
an addle egg.
No, nothing but ourselves.
As my true service shall deserve your love.
Exit
Good traders in the flesh, set this in your
To make the fox surveyor of the fold?
Ay, but thou usest to forswear thyself:
And one, already, of the privy council.
That yet we sleep, we dream. Do not you think
That swells with silence in the tortured soul;
Even of the bonny beast he loved so well.
Jeweller:	If he will touch the estimate: but, for that--
Before this earthy prison of their bones;
What both you spur and stop.
A trifle, some eight-penny matter.
In Troy, there lies the scene. From isles of Greece
When service sweat for duty, not for meed!
Thus speaks of him at Rome: but I will hope
We lose it not, so long as we can smile.
Good fortune, worthy soldier; and farewell.
King Pepin's title and Hugh Capet's claim,
Count Claudio?
To gratify the good Andronicus,
Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry 'Saint George!'
Now you have taken the pains to set it together,
he says he has a stratagem for't: when your
Precious, celestial? Wherefore speaks he this
What news, my friend?
Go bid the priests do present sacrifice
Exit
To say thou dost not: therefore tell me true;
That nature must compel us to lament
Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
Alarums to the battle. Enter WARWICK
Without her, follows to this land and me,
Accountant to the law upon that pain.
Like the old age.
Most rare.
What is between you? give me up the truth.
By this our book is drawn; we'll but seal,
Thy beagles with thee.
news on the Rialto? Who is he comes here?
Or as thy father and his father did,
If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick.
Exit
Avaunt, thou hateful villain, get thee gone!
Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much
I prithee, foolish Greek, depart from me: There's
Profess myself the winner of her honour,
Our revels now are ended. These our actors,
And that your majesty was a usurper.
Before the head has any,
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
Was pitied of Macbeth: marry, he was dead:
And I the elder and more terrible:
I'll be hanged first: thou art deceived in me,
If he had been forgotten,
Sent forth great largess to your offices.
Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him.
That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
But by reflection, by some other things.
Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night,
Now, by my sceptre and my soul to boot,
Be friends awhile and both conjointly bend
O noble prince, I can discover all
I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
If I speak true! if hollowly, invert
Like a fair house built on another man's ground; so
I shall do't, my lord.
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
O heaven, that there were but a mote in yours,
Find mercy in the law, 'tis his: if none,
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place
Where is the best and safest passage in?
And see whether Brutus be alive or dead;
Like a fine bragging youth, and tell quaint lies,
Well, I know not
Encore qu'il est contre son jurement de pardonner
In thunder and in earthquake, like a Jove,
I count myself in nothing else so happy
No, like a bank for love to lie and play on;
The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
Of the poor suppliant, who by this I know
performance of your promises.
Peter! what more?
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
own world, and you might quickly make it right.
'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you:
Sit, sir.
Good-morrow, cousin.
I am resolved for death or dignity.
None, but that there is so great a fever on
O Caesar,--
Our subjects, sir,
Pernicious blood-sucker of sleeping men!
Of your good pleasure? If it be no more,
How now, brother Edmund! what serious
Spirits of peace, where are ye? are ye all gone,
Doth long to see unarm'd the valiant Hector.
may run mad; but, if with too much brain and too
Where is my lord of Gloucester?
If that the former dare but what it can,
You of my household, leave this peevish broil
And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment
This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helm
Your leave, sweet Cressid!
dost thou converse with that trunk of humours, that
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
By Dromio here, who came in haste for it.
Destroy'd in such a shape.
Go, hang thyself in thine own heir-apparent
bastinado and made Lucifer cuckold and swore the
Wrong not yourself, then, noble Helicane;
Most holy sir, I thank you.
Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image
Somerset, Somerset, for Lancaster!
that every braggart shall be found an ass.
And follow Marcius.
Of honourable-dangerous consequence;
Turn from me, then, that noble countenance,
Thou art a gentleman and well derived;
They stand aloof
You know the lady; she is fast my wife,
is come after it indifferent well; for there is
Before the belching whale; then is he yonder,
So let me find thee still. Take this same letter,
I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee,
Why, then you are in love.
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Lies the true proof of men: the sea being smooth,
Stand you auspicious!
Hence hath offence his quick celerity,
To find another that is like to thee,
favour is well approved by your tongue. What's the
Thy nephews' souls bid thee despair and die!
I mean, who set the body and the limbs
And, with these boys, mine honour thou hast wounded:
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour:
Our enemies' pride: five times he hath return'd
This is some minx's token, and I must take out the
We shall express our duty in his eye;
mere want of gold, and the falling-from of his
None, man; all idle: whores and knaves.
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO
If I achieve not this young modest girl.
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
Expected: since he went from Egypt 'tis
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
Yet let me obtain my wish.
Enter Ambassadors of France
Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
But how of Cawdor? the thane of Cawdor lives,
Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes more
With twenty watchful, weary, tedious nights:
one that can steal well? O for a fine thief, of the
Prefix'd by Angelo: see this be done,
Torments will ope your lips.
Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's your
Slack the bolins there! Thou wilt not, wilt thou?
To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep;
Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
Let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women
Exeunt
What good is this to England and himself!
Will not sustain it.
Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,
Of all the favourites that the absent king
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.
Strong reasons make strong actions: let us go:
To-morrow yield up rule, resign my life,
Than she which by her death our Caesar tells
Who in a moment even with the earth
I do beseech your grace,--
Since thou wert king--as who is king but thou?--
Whom he reports to be a great magician,
A very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow.
Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of
And why so, my lord?
My good lord archbishop, I'm very sorry
Praise her but for this her without-door form,
He that perforce robs lions of their hearts
of his salt and most hidden loose affection? why,
Lands, goods, horse, armour, any thing I have,
are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
And I shall here abide the hourly shot
Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
To DON JOHN
Shall secretly into the bosom creep
With purple fountains issuing from your veins,
And given to fornications, and to taverns and sack
I think she doth; and that's her cause of sorrow.
My master's enemy.
Exeunt, severally
Do you hear?
The taming-school! what, is there such a place?
The choice and master spirits of this age.
Withdraw you hence, my lord, I'll follow you.
A pox on't, let it go; 'tis but a drum.
I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe,
Methinks it should have power to steal both his
To give me now a little benefit,
If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius,
Opening the leaden casket
What means this scorn, thou most untoward knave?
With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?
She will a handmaid be to his desires,
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck.
Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,
show much like to madness: pray heaven his wisdom be
Producing forth the cruel ministers
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
I am for you.
With golden fruit, but dangerous to be touch'd;
Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow;
Nor I no more of his, than you of mine.
Exit PETER
arithmetic but her brain to set down her reckoning:
Mourn not, except thou sorrow for my good;
I'll do't; but it dislikes me.
Lay out, lay out.
No, my good lord: myself, he and my sister
'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
Yes.
Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,
Yet every mother breeds not sons alike:
Why, thus it shall become
Go on before; I'll talk with this good fellow.
The good I stand on is my truth and honesty:
Why me, Timon?
The hard and soft seem all affined and kin:
A wretched soul, bruised with adversity,
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
I hope I have: I am able now, methinks,
wife; come, Mistress Page. I pray you, pardon me;
I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire:
from whence he was whipped for getting the shrieve's
bites his lip with a politic regard, as who should
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends,
Not in the power on't: so our leader's led,
I know it;
Let us go see your son, I pray you: I long to talk
And, in despite of mirth, mean to be merry.
Exeunt
Exit
Thou needs must be englutted. Besides, in mercy,
Heigh-ho!
And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
woman indeed, one that, in the authority of her
fleas like a loach.
Sith priest and holy water are so near
Thus purifies itself and turns to grace.
Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
In England and in Ireland, not confessing
Would I had never seen her.
laugh at my wife, that now laughs at thee: tell her
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
If any ship put out, then straight away.
I cannot daub it further.
Thy mistress' marks? what mistress, slave, hast thou?
Then he hath wrong'd himself; if he be free,
We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
As draw his sword; yet he hath left undone
The citizens are mum and speak not a word.
It may be,
There vanish'd in the sunbeams: which portends--
sharp sauce.
myself like one that I am not acquainted withal;
And little look'd for at your helping hands.
Not so hot:
I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
That I may give the local wound a name
To scatter and disperse the giddy Goths,
'Tis call'd the evil:
Who, I?
About it; for it stands me much upon,
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
If to preserve this vessel for my lord
[Roaring]  Oh--
Lead in your ladies, every one: sweet partner,
Well, we shall sift him.
Mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
SCENE V. A Heath.
My lord, look here: look here, Lavinia:
Might be a copy to these younger times;
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
Then call our captains and our colours forth.
And one day in a week to touch no food
My death's revenge, thy youth, and England's fame:
Sir, you say well and well you do conceive;
Forbear me.
Began a fresh assault.
Be chosen with proclamations to-day,
talk through the chink of a wall.
their mother,
Ah, what a shame! ah, what a fault were this!
Than any thou canst conjure up to-day;
The iron of itself, though heat red-hot,
find itself abused, begin to heave the gorge,
Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
Away, you three-inch fool! I am no beast.
There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
carbonado your shanks: draw, you rascal; come your ways.
Is death mis-term'd: calling death banishment,
And spotless shall mine innocence arise,
Thou didst not know on't. Who comes here? O heavens,
Enter one in sumptuous armour
The rod, and bird of peace, and all such emblems
Madam, we did: he desires to make atonement
No, by my troth, not long; for we cannot lodge and
Produce their bodies, be they alive or dead:
To cast up, with a pair of anchoring hooks,
Exit CATESBY
God bless your grace with health and happy days!
Exit FROTH
My word and promise to the emperor,
By heaven, I think my sword's as sharp as yours:
Presently?
Why not by the hand, sir? How have I offended?
Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth,
Lives in death with glorious fame.
give him his desire. Back you shall not to the
By swaggering could I never thrive,
ANTIPHOLUS
one of my friends.
Yet could I bear that too; well, very well:
tell you, captain, if you look in the maps of the
For 'tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings,
Ay, Timon.
Exit EDGAR
boy that stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.
If I know you well,
Unlike the ruler of a commonweal.
Despised the Athenian maid;
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices,
head worth a hat, or his chin worth a beard?
I sent for thee upon a sad occasion.
Exit IMOGEN, to the cave
Exit
Environ'd me about, and howled in mine ears
No, no, they would not do so foul a deed;
Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee,
To taint that honour every good tongue blesses,
No; I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
And his affairs come to me on the wind.
My lord. Griffith, farewell. Nay, Patience,
Merely upon myself. Vexed I am
You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart.
I humbly thank your highness.
I gird thee with the valiant sword of York:
ANTIPHOLUS
purchase, as I am a true man.
Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
An appetite that I am sick withal,
Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
How now, good fellow! wouldst thou speak with us?
And kept severely from resort of men,
There doth my father lie; and there, this night,
Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
Whose nature is so far from doing harms,
Two of thy name, both Dukes of Somerset,
woman, she's a good wench for this gear. Father,
Then is your cause gone too. The duke's unjust,
He would pun thee into shivers with his fist, as a
Hourly joys be still upon you!
that say so of him. Who are they?
Ay, sir; a mystery
Wherein your lady and your humble wife
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs
God, so long as your majesty is an honest man.
True: those that were your father's enemies
Sad, high, and working, full of state and woe,
My general will forget my love and service.
And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king,
ever was known in the commonwealth.
Thou never shalt mock Diomed again.
And pursy insolence shall break his wind
Hamlet, Hamlet!
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;
Without much shame retold or spoken of.
Exeunt
Upon a stranger?
Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss
Adieu! tears exhibit my tongue. Most beautiful
Now, by this hand, I gave it to a youth,
We honour you with trouble: but we came
name? Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
O eastern star!
We'll dress him up in voices: if he fail,
But set them down horrible traitors: spare not the babe,
Yes, when he is in; but I think he is not in.
heard the shepherd say, he found the child.
Being all to dolours turn'd?
are able and yet reserve an ability that they never
Can heaven be so envious?
Thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him,
Exit
Without the beauty of a woman's face?
Let me work;
I may entitle thee my loving father:
Hark, how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets.
And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.
Nor thou, nor he, are any sons of mine;
Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.
How possibly preserved; and who to thank,
Thy sacred physic shall receive such pay
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
is now the general: may say so in this respect, for
Exit
Which in his death were perfect.
That you affect; and so must you resolve,
I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire,
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
With maids to seem the lapwing and to jest,
To miseries enough; no hope to help you,
I have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgement;
With Angelo to-night shall lie
Salisbury, cheer thy spirit with this comfort;
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
are drown'd.
Exit
Ambitious churchman, leave to afflict my heart:
But there the duke was given to understand
So, slave; hence!
And he whose pious breath seeks to convert you,
I have with such provision in mine art
with his comfort; swallowed his vows whole,
Why, Warwick, hath thy knee forgot to bow?
Your sister is the better soldier.
Did Cicero say any thing?
And piece the way out with a heavy heart.
My charge was but to fetch you from the mart
Therefore I will be sudden and dispatch.
To the sea-side, and put his cause and quarrel
Should be in them to give.
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
requiring with a plausible obedience; agree with
And bury all, which yet distinctly ranges,
At the Saint Francis here beside the port.
not impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient
But for the sunset of my brother's son
In opposition bloody. I cannot speak
They know your grace hath cause and means and might;
[Aside]  How from the finny subject of the sea
Who does beguile you? who does do you wrong?
I do beseech you, either not believe
an end of him; for my soul, yet I know not why,
Rogue, rogue, rogue!
You were pretty lordings then?
By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found
True as you said, Timon is shrunk indeed;
Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth,
Great God of heaven, say Amen to all!
[Aside to COSTARD]  They have been at a great feast
So that the art and practic part of life
Did ever in so true a flame of liking
Nothing so sure; and thereby all forsworn.
Brutus had rather be a villager
Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff; and I
Worthies, away! the scene begins to cloud.
Where you did give a fair and natural light,
Make no more offers, use no farther means,
Mine interest and his honour, or have charged him,
The second, William of Hatfield, and the third,
You shall know many dare accuse you boldly,
Yea, are you so brief?
The speediness of your return.
and a heaven to throne in.
No, madam.
Compare our faces and be judge yourself.
And revel in Lavinia's treasury.
A passion most unsuiting such a man--
Lord Say, Jack Cade hath sworn to have thy head.
Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords:
I'll gladly learn.
And, in my company, my brother Gloucester;
Their harness studded all with gold and pearl.
From forth this morsel of dead royalty,
Of all his wars within the realm of France?
Look to it well and say you are well warn'd.
Salisbury?
Thy father's ground.
And so farewell, till we shall meet again.
Successively from age to age, he built it?
That to my home I will no more return,
And for one blast of thy minikin mouth,
Seyton!--I am sick at heart,
Were dolphin-like; they show'd his back above
To SILVIUS
Spur post, and get before him to the king,
And Eglamour is in her company.
He is address'd: press near and second him.
indeed! I ne'er made my will yet, I thank heaven; I
Here is her hand, the agent of her heart;
Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the
o' the coxcombs with a stick, and cried 'Down,
doth not the appetite alter? a man loves the meat
Shared dangers with you,--
Once more let me behold it: is it that
What fool hath added water to the sea,
no stronger than the word of a tapster; they are
Enter PISANIO
Go with him, sirrah.
SCENE I. The coast of Kent.
Never yet taint with love, I send the king.
And publish it that she is dead indeed;
Take in that kingdom, and enfranchise that;
Above the sense of sense; so sensible
bell-wether, and to betray a she-lamb of a
But if I live, his feigned ecstasies
Exeunt
SCENE I. KING JOHN'S palace.
Or let me lose the fashion of a man!
velvet on's face: whether there be a scar under't
Was fast belock'd in thine; this is the body
Of true sincerity? O, holy sir,
The king, I fear, is poison'd by a monk:
Enter Chamberlain and SANDS
Farewell.
Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys
Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace to-night:
What to delight in, what to sorrow for.
Before her troth-plight: say't and justify't.
If she live long,
though absent, shook hands, as over a vast, and
And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.
To be married to her: friar, you come to marry her.
My lord?
If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together.
Prisoner! to whom?
To make a bastard and a slave of me!
A noble troop of strangers;
And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood,
Exeunt severally
A bridegroom in my death, and run into't
But how long fairly shall her sweet lie last?
My evils conjured to remembrance and
Can it not do and undo? I will make
an honourable gentleman.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
[Aside to PROSPERO]          Was't well done?
It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily
How many days will finish up the year;
And bow'd her hand to teach her fingering;
I think so, Charmian: dull of tongue, and dwarfish!
This is above all strangeness.
Enter GOWER
him so pictured: you must either be directed by
That many have and others must sit there;
was. I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of
holiday foolery: if we walk not in the trodden
now should I kiss my father; well, he weeps on. Now
Almost to bursting, and the big round tears
The issue of an irreligious Moor,
There's a bargain made.
Come, sister. Shepherdess, look on him better,
The music there!--I pray you, give her air.
Above a number, if my actions
A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning.
'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
It is not Agamemnon's sleeping hour:
Death and destruction dog thee at the heels;
Pardon me, princely Henry, and the rest
They are not herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires;
SCENE VI. An open place in the neighbourhood of Swinstead Abbey.
Therefore doth heaven divide
Iago? O, I am spoil'd, undone by villains!
By Chrish, la! tish ill done: the work ish give
Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
Died with their swords in hand; for which
SCENE II. A field between the two camps.
[Aside]  Nay, John, it will be stinking law for his
You shall prevail,
It needs not, nor it boots thee not, proud queen,
welkin, I might say 'element,' but the word is over-worn.
At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours
By long and vehement suit I was seduced
see the man, that has but two legs, that shall find
I am not in the roll of common men.
As any comer I have look'd on yet
Were all address'd to meet you, gentle lady,
most virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had
To die upon the bed my father died,
To execute the noble duke at Calais.
discourse is sometime guarded with fragments, and
And we will come. March away.
Aside
Pertains to you alone.
I may say so, when I please.
What says your highness to my just demand?
By the sure physician, death, who is the key
Where was this lane?
Be call'd to him.
I the great toe! why the great toe?
To take their rooms, ere I can place myself:
And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied,
He is wise;
Then, in the name of God and all these rights,
Since she respects my mistress' love so much.
Come, leave your drinking, and fall to blows.
Out of our question wipe him.
Yes, something you can deny for your own
The evil that men do lives after them;
Almost midnight, madam.
And breathe twice and cry 'so, so,'
Than that of common sons.
'Redime te captum quam queas minimo.'
food for thee.
That the first face of neither, on the start,
Even so?
Which is indeed but sign. That you shall surely find him,
Exeunt BERTRAM and Lords
Ay, madam.
'Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the
Enter the two French Lords and some two or three Soldiers
For doing worthy vengeance on thyself,
Ladies! what are their wills?
Though I perchance am vicious in my guess,
'gree you now?
this husband, which, you say, must charge his horns
And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
Marrying my sister that thy mother was,
To quit me of them throughly.
But certain issue strokes must arbitrate:
They retire
Much weightier than this work. The queen's in labour,
In weightier things you'll say a beggar nay.
Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence;
But seven years since, in Syracusa, boy,
I am not afraid.
Do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical?
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
I see virtue in his looks. If then the tree may be
First, who think you the most desertless man to be
Sconce call you it? so you would leave battering, I
His Julia gave it him at his departure.
Were I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head,
Is it fit I went to look upon him? is there no
Do you hear, ho? you must meet my master to
His said he did; and with his deed did crown
Wilt thou revenge?
Pleads he in earnest? look upon his face;
To beat us down, the which are down already;
Exit
Enter FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
loves, and, I am proud, say, that my occasions have
This cannot save you:
not for his counsellor. You are not young, no more
Enter Mariners
blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to
Either be patient, and entreat me fair,
Nay, but ask my opinion too of that.
Lo, at their births good stars were opposite.
honorificabilitudinitatibus: thou art easier
O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard.
Welcome, brave Hector; welcome, princes all.
I will not send them: I will after straight
Away, old man; give me thy hand; away!
And feeds from home; poor I am but his stale.
O proper stuff!
Than for myself I dare: let that suffice you.
The law against it! But that her tender shame
Marry, sir, sometimes he is a kind of puritan.
Where we left him, on the sea. We there him lost;
He that no more must say is listen'd more
As if I did but only chew his name;
I do not, till you practise them on me.
reason. Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.
'Tis just the fashion: wherefore do you look
The 'why' is plain as way to parish church:
Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,
lady in the world.
Most sweet lady,--
Since fate, against thy better disposition,
Enter CASSIUS and his powers
And let her read it in thy looks at board:
A testament of noble-ending love.
What manner o' thing is your crocodile?
An honourable conduct let him have:
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
[Aside]  Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid:
Because their business still lies out o' door.
Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend,
Ay, sir; whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman,--
Call her forth, brother; here's the friar ready.
Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest:
You may my glories and my state depose,
Than this for whom we render'd up this woe.
That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant
For honour travels in a strait so narrow,
Flattering me with impossibilities.
Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look:
worm's an odd worm.
Now wears his crown.
Senseless Linen! happier therein than I!
His is the right, and therefore pardon me.
And the beholders of this tragic play,
An esperance so obstinately strong,
Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for tonight: since the
Assured bondage?'
Cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke.
Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;
it?
Well, Shylock, shall we be beholding to you?
I must die much your debtor.
'Tis now too certain:
false. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and
Thy thoughts with nobleness; that thou mayst prove
I'll then discourse our woes, felt several years,
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,
'Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?'
Enter PUCK
Turn, hell-hound, turn!
You chide at him, offending twice as much;
His fault is much, and the good king his master
With all my heart.
As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
By course of justice!
We judge no less. Uncle of Exeter,
Enter KING HENRY VI and Attendants
Than is a slave in base servility;
Enter Old Lady, LOVELL following
For their own good and ours.
Your patience to you, and be well contented
Will you be mine, now you are doubly won?
Some good man bear him carefully from hence;
Witness good bringing up, fortune and truth:
O monstrous! eleven buckram men grown out of two!
The gods confound them all in thy conquest;
It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
Enter CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, and a Soothsayer
Now, Rouen, I'll shake thy bulwarks to the ground.
Unto the poor King Reignier, whose large style
I will be patient; outwardly I will.
The present benefit which I possess;
With mine own hands I give away my crown,
SCENE VI. Another part of the field.
Some get within him, take his sword away:
Neighbours and friends, though bride and
If the matter of this paper be certain, you have
I will tell her.
ACT III
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
To play with mammets and to tilt with lips:
Philomel, with melody
There's hell, there's darkness, there's the
Invite me to a banquet; whose bright faces
Health to you, valiant sir,
ANTIPHOLUS
Both have I spill'd; O would the deed were good!
He that of greatest works is finisher
take him to be, he is Ajax.
I thought as much; he would be above the clouds.
Air
Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
Lest that their hopes prodigiously be cross'd:
Therefore to make his entrance more sweet,
Good madam, let me see your face.
Their pricks at my footfall; sometime am I
Which is his house, beseech you?
I send thee, Warwick, such a messenger
Pass the remainder of our hateful days?
Your grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
He'll make demand of her, and spend that kiss
Pulls off the friar's hood, and discovers DUKE VINCENTIO
Disparage not the faith thou dost not know,
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
The thick sighs from him, whiles the jolly Briton--
Exit
To most that teach.
Hold off your hands.
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces
trouble: the fashion of the world is to avoid
Degrees, observances, customs, and laws,
I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness;
more delicate way than drowning. Make all the money
It lies as sightly on the back of him
My lord, he is but even now gone hence:
How's this? how's this? Some more; be sage.
Shall be for me; and, to requite you further,
As much or more would we ourselves complain:
O Helicanus, strike me, honour'd sir;
Our ancestor was that Mulmutius which
Which you weep for.
To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears:
I think not so, my lord.
Please you to do't,
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.
Was all the harm I did. These gentle princes--
Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,
And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough;
That, if it chance the one of us do fail,
You did mistake.
You are too cold; if you should need a pin,
Alencon, Reignier, compass him about,
Stay for an answer to your embassy,
But, hark! what new alarum is this same?
Sir John, we have had ill luck; we could never meet.
And find out murderers in their guilty caves:
What was't to you?
And call thy husband hither.
When he was here,
Sir,
The circumstance I'll tell you more at large.
Enter PAROLLES
'Clarence is come; false, fleeting, perjured Clarence,
By heaven, methinks it were an easy leap,
Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish'd:
March. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, SOMERSET, OXFORD, and soldiers
To be young again, if we could: I will be a fool in
And that my sword upon thee shall approve,
And I denied to enter in my house?
My plenteous joys,
My hands are of your colour; but I shame
Wherein my letters, praying on his side,
get an eye-wink of her: I had myself twenty angels
Of Phoebus' wheel, and might so safely, had it
Where didst thou see her? O unhappy girl!
Shall out-tongue his complaints. 'Tis yet to know,--
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
Begin your suits anew, and sue to him.
Is nothing left me but my body's length.
Where the quick freshes are.
They'll mar my counterfeiting.
The Alps doth spit and void his rheum upon:
To bring false generations: they are co-heirs;
To climb his happiness, would be well express'd
SCENE IV. Orleans.
In Philoten all graceful marks,
Shortcake upon All-hallowmas last, a fortnight
The cardinal's letters to the pope miscarried,
Mine is, an't please your grace, against John
O, thou didst prophesy the time would come
'Faith, once or twice she heaved the name of 'father'
Helen, to you our minds we will unfold:
My face is but a moon, and clouded too.
could be set up against mortality.
his bargain; for he was never yet a breaker of
Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
swearing 'Lay by' and spent with crying 'Bring in;'
Will do his bidding. Brutus, come apace,
Sir, your queen must overboard: the sea works high,
He bears him like a portly gentleman;
Now it is the time of night
planted and placed and possessed by my master Don
Knocking within
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
news is old enough, yet it is every day's news. I
hath in quarrelling, 'tis thought among the prudent
To-morrow to the field.
gross: inkles, caddisses, cambrics, lawns: why, he
No drop but as a coach doth carry thee;
Most mighty duke, behold a man much wrong'd.
Knowing my mind, you wrong me, Master Fenton.
But that you shall not say I yield being silent,
Fly! not we.
I do defy thy conjurations,
Yes; keep you warm.
Each takes his fellow for an officer.
Lead'st first to win some vantage.
He is as worthy for an empress' love
Of one that loved not wisely but too well;
Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas;
And dart not scornful glances from those eyes,
I know you did.
These Kentish rebels would be soon appeased!
Spit in the hole, man, and tune again.
No, indeed, my lord.
I'll fetch my sister, to get her good will.
suffered under that shape, I beseech you take it for
with thy tale.
You are right courteous knights.
Wrench it open;
For hither we have broken in by force.
his brains are forfeit to the next tile that falls.
Is ours already, and the man entire
I am not guilty of Lysander's blood;
Or, wanting strength to do thee so much good,
No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
But wilt thou faithfully?
On payment of a hundred thousand crowns,
Hear his speech, but say thou nought.
Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth:
As I have set it down.
Agrees not with the leanness of his purse.
Honest Ventidius; you mistake my love:
their possets,
Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, and you
thrive long under her? There's a quart d'ecu for
there come a tempest of provocation, I will shelter me here.
But I am faint, my gashes cry for help.
Upon thy certainty and confidence
His hopeful son's, his babe's, betrays to slander,
shirts and smocks, socks, foul stockings, greasy
present, the person of Moonshine. Then, there is
That I will show you shining at this feast,
Let him come back, that his compassion may
A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to
Cries 'This is he,' could promise to himself
His crown shall be the ransom of my friend;
Your offer. Come, dearest madam. O, no tears,
Hang on her temples like a golden fleece;
Beneath the fall I have.
mine honest neighbours shouted.
Because I ever found them as myself.
What says the other troop?
Here to have death in peace is all he'll crave.
peril: I had rather than a thousand pound he were
What store her heart is made on. Stop her there!
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,
'Tis true; for you are over boots in love,
For ever by your grace, whose hand has raised me.
I think there be six Richmonds in the field;
'Tis good. Go to the gate; somebody knocks.
And let your fervor, like my master's, be
But leave it all to God. whither away?
All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not 'scape;
Cousin, thou wert not wont to be so dull:
Why should not I then prosecute my right?
By sight of these our baleful enemies.
Pity the city of London, pity us!
Whose roof's as low as ours! Stoop, boys; this gate
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
Stay, Humphrey Duke of Gloucester: ere thou go,
Together with that fair and warlike form
If thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord.
Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
[Aside to MISTRESS PAGE]  Trust me, I thought on her:
But that I love the gentle Desdemona,
Nay, and you will not, sir, I'll take my heels.
as they say, and know the world.
Doing the execution and the act
Than that which withering on the virgin thorn
the stile, this way.
Get thee gone, but do it.
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
wouldst make an absolute courtier; and the firm
Will you stay no longer? nor will you not that I go with you?
How does your fallow greyhound, sir? I heard say he
That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
To wife for Edward: if this news be true,
And come to Padua, careless of your life?
Exeunt GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS
It is impossible you should see this,
They sound a parley. Enter two Senators with others on the walls
him: I am glad of it.
What, are you up here, ho? speak.
murderer. He does obey every point of the letter
SCENE II. The DUKE OF LANCASTER'S palace.
And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
Have you collected them by tribes?
standing-bed and truckle-bed; 'tis painted about
yet, had he mistook him and sent to me, I should
Come not within the measure of my wrath;
Tend me to-night;
Exeunt
she'll burn a week longer than the whole world.
Who was the first of Britain which did put
For I will kiss her.
Yet they are not join'd: where yond pine
I will, my liege.
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now?
O, but, sir,
Where was his son when they did take his eyes?
Renowned suitors, and her sunny locks
But I hear, no; they say my son of York
the ministers.
To smother up his beauty from the world,
What need we fear?
Say I will come.
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
Good night, sir. My Octavia,
more brain than I have in mine elbows; an assinego
'His meanest garment!' Well.
To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,
And gape at widest to glut him.
Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me,
are welcome to the house; if not, an it would please
And so, intending other serious matters,
Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow
Question, my lords, no further of the case,
Whilst, in the mildness of your sleepy thoughts,
Ha!
Serves for the matter that is then born in't.
Exact the penalty.
And did forsake her: she had a song of 'willow;'
Met us again and madly bent on us,
Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
Till then I'll sweat and seek about for eases,
cork into a hogshead. And then for the
O, fellow, come, the song we had last night.
His brother's death at Bristol, the Lord Scroop.
Gentlemen,
For better times to come. Friar, advise him;
Now, what says the world
What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia,--
Than all thy woes can stir; therefore betake thee
This is the ape of form, monsieur the nice,
With linstock now the devilish cannon touches,
Well, go thy ways, old lad; for thou shalt ha't.
Come, stand by me; fear nothing. Guard with halberds!
Exit Provost
The past proportion of his infinite?
Confronts your city's eyes, your winking gates;
Is in the very May-morn of his youth,
There is no remedy, sir, but you must die: the
With good acceptance of his majesty;
Your honourable letter he desires
Forty let it be:
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
Do thy worst:
With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
Enter an Attendant
Exit
dearly? By this kind of chase, I should hate him,
You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
Nay, Gloucester, know that thou art come too soon,
Cannot contain their urine: for affection,
She that doth fast till you come home to dinner,
If lost, why then a grievous labour won;
Devoured by the unexpected flood.
Why lament you, pretty one?
I would I had thy inches; thou shouldst know
Poor wounded name! my bosom as a bed
The fairest queen that ever king received.
I heard your guilty rhymes, observed your fashion,
This Hector far surmounted Hannibal,--
to Lord Lucullus you: I hunted with his honour
The graces for his merits due,
O, by whom?
As this Gonzalo; I myself could make
By this, had thought been past. Alive or dead?
That will I, Pompey.
present itself; a devilish knave. Besides, the
Do feel the treason sharply, yet the traitor
Shall I not live to be avenged on her?
Shall stay with us: order for sea is given;
Are ye so hot, sir? yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace;
That make ingrateful man!
Follow me close; I'll bring you to't. Adieu.
No matter: his heels have deserved it, in usurping
Exit
A pretty period! Well, I guess the sequel;
thou, Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and
What name, sir?
What said Northumberland as touching Richmond?
Now, God delay our rebellion! as we are ourselves,
Because we thought ourself thy lawful king:
Of us that trade in love.
Walks, like contempt, alone. More of our fellows.
Poor bird! thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
Good sir, give me good fortune.
A pack of sorrows which would press you down,
Alas, poor man! a million of beating may come to a
Come, come;
Enter, with drum and colours, CORDELIA, Doctor, and Soldiers
As fears and reasons? fie, for godly shame!
Take heed, sirrah; the whip.
fault I pray.
Upon your charter and your city's freedom.
in buckram suits. I tell thee what, Hal, if I tell
cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul
dog that lives: my mother weeping, my father
Madam, it will not lie where it concerns
I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
O monstrous! monstrous!
Well, well;
Because what follows is pure innocence.
Will you we show our title to the crown?
God for his mercy! what a tide of woes
As strange unto your town as to your talk;
Uncharitably with me have you dealt,
Amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say I;
take dust, like Mistress Mall's picture? why dost
Whose was it?
Do with so good a woman?
Made me exchange my state with Tranio,
They have the plague, and caught it of your eyes;
Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun,
For present comfort and for future good,
Betwixt the stout Lord Talbot and the French.
Good angels keep it from us!
Exit boy
In bearing thus the absence of your lord.
of Nobody.
Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus?
Or any air of music touch their ears,
As holy oil, Edward Confessor's crown,
But 'tis no matter; thou shalt bring him to me
Condition, I had gone barefoot to India.
Kill what I love?--a savage jealousy
Marry, but you shall have; and here's my hand.
As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
if alive, I will strike it out soundly.
From his most famed of famous ancestors,
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with
I know your virtue hath a licence in't,
Hath to the marbled mansion all above
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
The ladder made of cords, and all the means
'Item: She hath many nameless virtues.'
Come, Sir Andrew, there's no remedy; the gentleman
Therefore present to her--as sometime Margaret
ACT III
O wonderful, wonderful, and most wonderful
toads carbonadoed.
And there repose you for this night.
As we do air, fast as 'twas minister'd,
fellow of it.
Was then scarce friends with him: I have heard
But thou hast sworn against religion,
We have willing dames enough: there cannot be
I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded
That loves his mistress more than in confession,
To find the mind's construction in the face:
'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown,
What, Longaville! and reading! listen, ear.
We call a nettle but a nettle and
And York and impious Beaufort, that false priest,
In any proportion or in any language.
To watch the coming of my punish'd duchess:
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
The fairest in all Syria,
Do challenge thee to trial of a man.
Like free and honest men, our just opinions
dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
We are.
Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of;
It shall be stony. York not our old men spares;
Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
Betwixt you and the cardinal. I advise you--
Nay, but hear me.
torment the poor lady worse.
husband at home, my son and my servant spend all at
Enter the two Murderers
I know you have determined to bestow her
When I am cold in zeal to yours.
There are a sort of men whose visages
I am an officer of state, and come
To take that course by your consent and voice,
Ran on the green-sward: nothing she does or seems
Exeunt
man counts of her beauty.
You would be satisfied?
That I am touch'd with madness! Make not impossible
You may be armed and appointed well:
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns:
I will stir up in England some black storm
In this wild action; for the success,
I will perform it to enfranchise you.
And that is false thou dost report to us.
and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind that
Than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer.
When she was young you woo'd her; now in age
And therefore frame the law unto my will.
not the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not
Ay, my lord.
Doing himself offence; whilst we, lying still,
For valiant doings in their country's cause?
I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
I thank thee: wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee:
To hear this of him; and could wish he were
Then, free for ever! Is't enough I am sorry?
Commend me to Lord William: tell him, Catesby,
Hast made thine enemies?
Suspect still comes where an estate is least.
to the devil wrath; one unperfectness shows me
And the very ports they blow,
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she:
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
Enter GEORGE
That scarce, some two days since, were worth a noble.
And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys,
By what means got, I leave to your own conscience--
How understand we that?
Such separation as may well be said
Than such as most seem yours: I say, I come
lie.
For all the accommodations that thou bear'st
Let her shine as gloriously
But lately, very late: I loved him, friend;
And prays you to believe him.
Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke:
I shall not dine at home;
First he denied you had in him no right.
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
I know not: but I am sure 'tis safer to
Sir John Falstaff!
shalt hear; 'tis in three parts.
Enter FLAVIUS, with two or three Servants
To noble fortunes: know thou this, that men
Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
[Picking his pocket]
Which to deny concerns more than avails; for as
Charles Delabreth, high constable of France;
And gave him what becomed love I might,
Come forth.
Enter DUKE ORSINO, VIOLA, CURIO, and others
were pity of my life: no I am no such thing; I am a
If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went--
As once Europa did at lusty Jove,
What manner of man, an it like your majesty?
To that your diamond; I'll keep them.
What should not then be spared. He is already
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
O, seek not to entrap me, gracious lord,
Were in six parts and every part a ducat,
That York is most unmeet of any man.
Faith, sir, superficially.
Tears our recountments had most kindly bathed,
Ha, ha! how vilely doth this cynic rhyme!
Nor let my kingdom's rivers take their course
Note it not you, Thaisa?
this true?
never think that lady would have loved any man.
Go give your master this: tell him from me,
And followed with a rabble that rejoice
bitterness of it I now belch from my heart--that she
How came you, Cassio, by that handkerchief
Your need to sustain;
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws
Sought to entrap me by intelligence;
No, nor a man that fears you less than he,
I tell you, 'tis incredible to believe
Rode on his tide. Go tell him this, and add,
You cannot call it love; for at your age
I think he would not wish himself any where but
Pompey, presently denied him rivality; would not let
And turns it to exile; there art thou happy:
Thou wouldst have poison'd good Camillo's honour,
Before the curing of a strong disease,
Nay, but swear't.
In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
COUNTESS
Of a pair of bases.
He rose against him, being his sovereign,
Shake off slumber, and beware:
Let the court of France show me such another. I see
But what, but what, come they to visit us?
No, my lord, rather with choler.
Ay, my lord; even so
I am not a woman, to be touched with so many
My gentle Phebe bid me give you this:
thoughts, and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers:
It's supper-time, my lord;
I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered
Alarum as in battle. Enter, from opposite sides, MARCIUS and AUFIDIUS
Or Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
What thinkest thou, will our friends prove all true?
But, though I loved you well, I woo'd you not;
I know you well enough; you are Signior Antonio.
For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe:
Why, may one ask?
The prince my brother hath outgrown me far.
Hark, the duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
Persuades when speaking fails.
And what may follow,
I may quarter, coz.
Arise; one knocks; good Romeo, hide thyself.
No mournful bell shall ring her burial;
Is worse in kings than beggars. My dear lord!
the subject! and war and lechery confound all!
belly, ere I should come by a fire to thaw me: but
But that there is this jewel in the world
Sir Christopher, tell Richmond this from me:
The stars above us, govern our conditions;
As in a theatre, whence they gape and point
To call upon his own, and humbly prays you
chamber window, where we play, open, and the moon
O, woe the day!
Well, sit we down,
Fair love, you faint with wandering in the wood;
In thy eye that shall appear
That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together,
God will revenge it; whom I will importune
you are false knaves.
Could have attain'd the effect of your own purpose,
Of their disguising and pretended flight;
gentleman or a yeoman?
And point by point the treasons of his master
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
many books together: he is furnished with my
I thought you lord of more true gentleness.
Or, if there were a sympathy in choice,
This would drink deep.
He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
I'll prove a busy actor in their play.
But with the aid of use.
Who hath sent thee now?
[Aside]  Hortensio, say thou wilt see the tailor paid.
Whether you will or no.
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
Is cramm'd with arrogancy, spleen, and pride.
Have done! for shame, if not for charity.
Well, I say Troilus is Troilus.
make a circle; if conjure up love in her in his true
Dear lady, welcome home.
I mean, the business is not ended, as fearing to
Sir?
And Julia herself did give it me;
Come away, come away, death,
the insinuating nod and be off to them most
I cannot be so answer'd.
They that reap must sheaf and bind;
Myself and what is mine to you and yours
That ever living man of memory,
How? to send him word they'll meet him in the park
Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
and bare, too beggarly.
Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace
Who's that? a Frenchman?
Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe
Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
Let's meet him and receive him.
In leaden contemplation have found out
Sirrah, look to't; i' faith, I will, i' faith.
O, is't come to this?
And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill.
Can you not read it? Is it not fair writ?
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
Exit
saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana
Impose some service on me for thy love.
Courteous lord, one word.
Why, is it not news, to hear of Petruchio's coming?
He would depart, I'll give some light unto you.
Your wit's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire.
Madam, be patient: as I was cause
Not so happy, yet much happier.
Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
Else ne'er could he so long protract his speech.
countenance her.
Not seeing what is likely to ensue.
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
When majesty stoops to folly. Reverse thy doom;
notable cause to work.
unicorn, pride and wrath would confound thee and
And bad'st me bury love.
Do, do: we steal by line and level, an't like your grace.
none, remember thy friends; get thee a good husband,
Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well,
like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent
Nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom,
Re-enter some of the Watch, with BALTHASAR
Didst thou not say, when I did push thee back--
Even in the height and pride of all his glory,
Were there necessity in your request, although
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
Hates any man the thing he would not kill?
So infinitely endear'd--
How did this offer seem received, my lord?
If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
But moody and dull melancholy,
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed.
No; nor it is not meet he should. For, though I
And of thy cunning had no diffidence:
Cast off his chains of bondage and embrace
Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
I fear it, I promise you.
Ha! what is that?
So other foes may set upon our backs.
Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm,
sprite: I'll fetch her. It is the prettiest
Henceforth be never number'd among men!
That thus he suffers for.
hast feigned him a worthy fellow.
Change slander to remorse; that is some good:
For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them
Himself a king.
Do you note
Although the print be little, the whole matter
Look how thy servants do attend on thee,
I am not well in health, and that is all.
Approaching near these eyes, would drink my tears
you'll be laughed at.
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends,
Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know;
Enter GLOUCESTER
Reserve them till a merrier hour than this.
Dispute not that: York is the worthier.
in her body. No, Hector is not a better man than Troilus.
To foreign passages, and in the end,
And bid them speak for me: but were I Brutus,
Think it an altar, and thy brother Troilus
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
Indeed she is.
Within this hour it will be dinner-time:
Your brother too must die; consent you, Lepidus?
Who of my people hold him in delay?
Sky-planted batters all rebelling coasts?
Puts to him all the learnings that his time
For time is like a fashionable host
Madam, though Venus govern your desires,
Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a
it when I go from home; welcomed home with it when
Sing all a green willow must be my garland.
Kisses her
Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
And, for your love, I'll take this ring from you:
And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire,
Thou art straightway with the fiends.
tell him, for conclusion, he hath betrayed his
Stand!
And still rest thine. The storm begins; poor wretch,
ACT III
The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting
Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me.
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
Well, well, sir, well.
house-eaves, because they are lecherous. The duke
Kneels
That they will guard you, whether you will or no,
One would have lingering wars with little cost;
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
I crave your blessing.
Call her divine.
Writ to your grace from the Duke of Burgundy.
spavins, rayed with yellows, past cure of the fives,
O Lord, sir, the parties themselves, the actors,
You never had a servant to whose trust
Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,
parrot, and yet the son of a woman! His industry is
Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
O, teach me how you look, and with what art
She speaks this in the infirmity of sense.
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
I ne'er had worse luck in my life in my 'O Lord,
When I was last in Holborn,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
But nothing alter'd: what I was, I am;
My lord, I neither can nor will deny
Love's feeling is more soft and sensible
The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees,
And would in action glorious I had lost
And she again wants nothing, to name want,
I could have well diverted her intents,
My tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,
And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I
Kept in a dark house, visited by the priest,
May make too great an act: for learn this, Silius;
And she alone is heir to both of us:
Windsor leads a better life than she does: do what
Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through
Of knights, esquires, and gallant gentlemen,
stand upon your honour! Why, thou unconfinable
Were he the veriest antic in the world.
Welcome my lord; I dance attendance here;
What would she find? Lavinia, shall I read?
In the main battle, whose puissance on either side
have eat no meat these five days; yet, come thou and
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
Which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
Ill-faced, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere;
have saved my life.'Zounds, I am afraid of this
That art a votary to fond desire?
affection: it is past the infinite of thought.
The monstrous bulk of this ingratitude
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
Nor with such free and friendly conference,
No, Plantagenet,
From the corruption of abusing times,
A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint,
gelding, than my wife with herself; then she plots,
One of my sex; no woman's face remember,
Spring with my tears! be aidant and remediate
My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
For whilst I think I am thy married wife
With which such scathful grapple did he make
A traitor to his God, his king and him;
other issue?
That is all one, my fair, sweet, honey monarch; for,
My lord,
But makes one pardon strong.
We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
For high feats done to the crown; neither allied
You equal potents, fiery kindled spirits!
May not fly forth of Egypt. Hast thou affections?
Myself would, on the rearward of reproaches,
Articles are borrowed of the pronoun, and be thus
The very bottom and the soul of hope,
mind is: Why give him gold enough and marry him to
Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
Who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger;
To his full height. On, on, you noblest English.
Lords, I protest, my soul is full of woe,
To whom it must be done.
not wooed in good time: if the prince be too
put me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit
By each particular star in heaven and
Thou hast not half that power to do me harm
What shall betide the Duke of Somerset?
Tut, I have lost myself; I am not here;
At what was all this laughing?
Not to be shaked; the agent for his master
Laid them before you; you would throw them off,
I Richard's body have interred anew;
Words pay no debts, give her deeds: but she'll
Of my queen's travails!
Knocking within
I am sure on't, not a word.
Till noon! till night, my lord; and all night too.
Men all in fire walk up and down the streets.
For Suffolk, he that can do all in all
Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
To whom the heavens in thy nativity
No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse:
Why should he die, sir?
The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his
As you enjoin'd me, I have writ your letter
My widow says, thus she conceives her tale.
I had rather be a country servant-maid
O, uncle, would some part of my young years
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
so earnest
But how I caught it, found it, or came by it,
meantime, good Signior Benedick, repair to
Enter, to the gates of the monument, PROCULEIUS, GALLUS and Soldiers
you will have leave,
In blood of princes; and their wounded steeds
Why, what's the matter?
Yourself and your accusers; and to have heard you,
Of my true mother.
Here was a royal fellowship of death!
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
A fox, when one has caught her,
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise;
The cardinal's not my better in the field.
to breakfast: after, we'll a-birding together; I
To FLORIZEL
And lend no ear unto my purposes.
world shall know it: though you have put me into
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Came he right now to sing a raven's note,
Why, let the war receive 't in valiant gore
A marvellous poor one.
Like a forlorn and desperate castaway,
Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,
Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
Within the earth; and, therein laid,--there lies
We'll set thy statue in some holy place,
So big, to hold so much; they lack retention
Fit counsellor and servant for a prince,
Upon that day either prepare to die
But let them measure us by what they will;
exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it; they
Give him this letter; do it secretly;
Why, then I will do what your grace commands.
Ay, and twenty such.
If sanctimony be the gods' delight,
knows me not: I will try confusions with him.
great traveller, and wild Half-can that stabbed
hope thou didst feign.
And with her breath she did perfume the air:
And God, not we, hath plagued thy bloody deed.
His sorrows have so overwhelm'd his wits,
To plague the inventor: this even-handed justice
There shall I rest secure from force and fraud.
The things that are not? O error, soon conceived,
Hath placed thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
You have put me into rhyme.
request, cousin, in any reason.
But I will keep her ignorant of her good,
But yet I cannot help you.
Therein false struck, can take no greater wound,
So please you, sir, their speed
And tell him so; for I will ease my heart,
Or let us stand to our authority,
To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio
I say, my sovereign, York is meetest man
The 'solus' in thy teeth, and in thy throat,
Pardon, madam:
And vaulted with such ease into his seat,
motion generative; that's infallible.
Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
Hath charged you should not speak together.
Or any groat I hoarded to my use,
How much you were my conqueror; and that
Drew sleep out of mine eyes, blood from my cheeks,
step on. They say he has been fencer to the Sophy.
[Within]  What, ho, gossip Ford! what, ho!
Protector, see to't well, protect yourself.
Lavinia, you are not displeased with this?
Storm still
Harp not on that string, madam; that is past.
That starts i' the way before thee.
What, Eros, Eros!
And, by his treason, stand'st not thou attainted,
Your brows are blacker; yet black brows, they say,
Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD, attended
Some touch of your late business: affairs, that walk,
ruttish: I pray you, sir, put it up again.
Poor Tom's a-cold.
Men, wives and children stare, cry out and run
To tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where I lie.
The one side must have bale.
Enter a Messenger
To fright them hence with that dread penalty.
Wrench awe from fools and tie the wiser souls
Not only, sir, this your all-licensed fool,
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
I cannot speak to her, yet she urged conference.
I hope my master's suit will be but cold,
Almost no grave allow'd me: like the lily,
Who am prepared against your territories,
But in all places else your master Lucentio.
All offices of nature should again
To meet at London London's king in woe.
O insupportable! O heavy hour!
When we are born, we cry that we are come
Almost the sum he pays.
Nor was not to be equall'd;'--thus your verse
Even he, your wife, this lady, and myself,
This admiration, sir, is much o' the savour
Exeunt PAGE, FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Signior Benedick?
With honour and with fortune is return'd
Would he do so, I'ld beg your precious mistress,
And He that might the vantage best have took
that damned brawn shall play Dame Mortimer his
Hath blister'd her report: she is with child;
Taint the condition of this present hour,
Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
of all count.
Thou art more deep damn'd than Prince Lucifer:
When I was mortal, my anointed body
And shall do so ever, though I took him at 's
Out, alas, sir! cozenage, mere cozenage!
Like goodly buildings left without a roof
When most the truth; which I receive much better
And send you many lovers!
The tale of Tereus; here the leaf's turn'd down
Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
In this the antique and well noted face
Arthur Plantagenet, lays most lawful claim
To be her mistress' mistress! the queen's queen!
And, commendable proved, let's die in pride.
have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse;
Exeunt
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
prostrate and grovel on the earth; John Southwell,
Than that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the difference
Then, my queen, in silence sad,
humour of mine, sir, to take that that no man else
Set me against Aufidius and his Antiates;
To ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
Allot thee for his lovely bed-fellow!
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
All that are here: some come to take their ease,
our spirit,
High order in this great solemnity.
Make gallant show and promise of their mettle;
had rather than forty shillings I had such a leg,
I thought to crush him in an equal force,
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive;  They are the ground, the books, the academes From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire
Thou hast, Ventidius,
You know the very road into his kindness,
Then, when you come to Pluto's region,
And do expect him here some two hours hence.
Desires to be admitted to your presence.
My noble girls! Ah, women, women, look,
let him roar again.'
you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle
And when he was a babe, a child, a shrimp,
No, this thrice worthy and right valiant lord
I am not in a sportive humour now:
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
Stay, stand apart; I know not which is which.
How now sir! is your merry humour alter'd?
Come, mistress Kate, I'll bear you company.
Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree?
A little time will melt her frozen thoughts
I am, as thy general is.
list of my voyage.
I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away.
draws the horse? Whoop, Jug! I love thee.
So may a thousand actions, once afoot.
have I encompassed you? go to; via!
Ay, though it look like thee.
Which is from my remembrance! Please you, farther.
For thee to fight,    JOHN FALSTAFF'
Though you in swearing shake the throned gods,
Prithee, hie thee; he'll come anon:--
Here cometh Charles: I marvel how he sped.
But weary for the staleness.
you got the picture of old Adam new-apparelled?
Gentle Octavia,
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
When Caesar and your brother were at blows,
High be our thoughts: I know my uncle York
Something's afore't. Soft, soft! we'll no defence;
That it prefers itself and leaves unquestion'd
You know that I held Epicurus strong
The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
And all combined, save what thou must combine
Goes into the trunk. The scene closes
much further;
lose the tide, if you tarry any longer.
Teems, and feeds all; whose self-same mettle,
O, that's the Latin word for three farthings: three
Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena.
This is to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
And given my treasures and my rights of thee
So do I ever:
Away, and glister like the god of war,
You bring me out. Soft! comes he not here?
Is the day so young?
Like wrath in death and envy afterwards;
Myself a former fortune.
My sole earth's heaven and my heaven's claim.
Am I Rome's slave? What penny hath Rome borne,
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
activity in question. What, billing again? Here's
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
And ask of Cymbeline what boon thou wilt,
You have been a boggler ever:
Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,
To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward:
Which for this nineteen years we have let slip;
Where thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us
For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
Infects one comma in the course I hold;
There will we mount, and thither walk on foot
Turn from their office to black funeral;
One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick.
And am most sensible in grief for it,
And you shall pay well for 'em.
I am accursed to rob in that thief's company: the
When every goose is cackling, would be thought
take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
For though usurpers sway the rule awhile,
Shall set thee on triumphant chariots and
Joy, gentle friends! joy and fresh days of love
Here is my journey's end, here is my butt,
At upper end o' the table, now i' the middle;
Good my lord, enter here.
I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read
grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff: you
I have no spleen against you; nor injustice
Avaunt, perplexity! What shall we do,
crow-keeper: draw me a clothier's yard. Look,
But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
safe: and you must suffer him to take no delight
Enter the Ghost of CAESAR
Here is better than the open air; take it
And where we are our learning likewise is:
Lie further off yet, do not lie so near.
ANTIPHOLUS
And bless the good remainders of the court! I am gone.
To the fairness of my power.
In me defunct--and proper satisfaction.
Trip no further, pretty sweeting;
And, like true subjects, sons of your progenitors,
My spirit can no longer bear these harms.
Whether it be through force of your report,
He answer'd thus: 'Young Talbot was not born
You do extend
If she were by, to hear you make the offer.
Roaring for Troilus, who hath done to-day
And will have no attorney but myself;
Well, then, farewell.
Or worthily, as a good subject should,
In such a time nothing becoming you,
He asks of you, that never used to beg.
Most holy and religious fear it is
Two hot sheeps, marry.
Be truly welcome hither: I am the duke
My noble lords and cousins all, good morrow.
Nay, women are frail too.
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK, train, and LE BEAU
My staff? here, noble Henry, is my staff:
And get our jewels and our wealth together,
From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
I cannot tell; but this I am assured,
And in their rage, I having hold of both,
Embrace we then this opportunity
I cannot hope
With men like men of inconstancy.
God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the
O insupportable and touching loss!
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
This eye shoots forth! how big imagination
were she earthly, no nobler,--whither do you follow
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
And mourn you for him: let him be regarded
A toy, my liege, a toy: your grace needs not fear it.
Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
To calm this tempest whirling in the court;
Which with the heart there cools and ne'er returneth
Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature,
To the direction just.
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
And prologue to the omen coming on,
Claudio, walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine
And suffer'd my command.
Absolute queen.
Amen.
For native blood is counted painting now;
[Within]  O, good my lord, I would speak a word with you!
How are we park'd and bounded in a pale,
Would choose him pope, and carry him to Rome,
Well met, Master Ford.
I am your better, traitors as ye are:
O'er your content these strong necessities;
I should have been beholding to your paper.
The fear of that withholds my present aid.
What wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst
No, sir, she shall not, though you take her part.
When have I injured thee? when done thee wrong?
If they will fight with us, bid them come down,
Enter ANGELO with the chain
till he had both tune and words; which so drew the
I see a voice: now will I to the chink,
Exit one to Abbess
With prayers for the provider.
which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness; and,
And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
of idiot worshippers, here's a letter for thee.
Till Suffolk gave two dukedoms for his daughter.
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
Hume must make merry with the duchess' gold;
My name is Marina.
unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor bare,
As 'twere my daughter's eyes: and, to be plain.
To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave,
Enter two Players, King and Queen
But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourself
And friends with Caesar.
When icicles hang by the wall
Does pay thy labour richly; go.
Lord, for thy justice!
I am the turned forth, be it known to you,
Ay, and mine,
Bohemia stops his ears, and threatens them
Sweet York, begin: and if thy claim be good,
thorough them.
Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charged at peril--
And vent it for a mockery? Here is one:
With other vile and ignominious terms:
nose; or against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove;'
Retires to his cave
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
What now remains, my lords, for us to do
Why, how now, ho! from whence ariseth this?
Sheathe your dagger:
Clifford of Cumberland, 'tis Warwick calls:
Thine own life's means! Then 'tis most like
PROSPERO and ARIEL remain invisible. Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, all wet
I say, set on.
Take thou this note;
head, and show the world what the bird hath done to
More than my all is nothing: nor my prayers
To follow in a house where twice so many
knock! Who's there, in the other devil's
Good master doctor, see him safe convey'd
ACT V
To have them fall no more: you some permit
Breathe you, my friends: well fought;
Lay hands on him; a dog!
Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge!
I'll say as they say and persever so,
Yet, to recover them, would lose my life.
neither maid, widow, nor wife.
Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright,
Security, I'll pawn my victories, all
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
Out of his self-drawing web, he gives us note,
But I shall laugh at this a twelve-month hence,
I will wink on her to consent, my lord, if you will
Do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a
As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland;
Enter Chamberlain, SANDS, and LOVELL
In my opinion yet thou seest not well.
Assemble presently the people hither;
Have often shamed our sex.
I cried to dream again.
There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries;
A march afar
Since the true life on't was--
You had a motive for't.
To BIANCA
You know, my lord, your highness is betroth'd
monster! when 's god's asleep, he'll rob his bottle.
speak in your own behalf; and thus far I confirm
I will have nothing else but only this;
But thus, I trust, you will not marry her.
If all the year were playing holidays,
sport out of him: by his authority he remains here,
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;
Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar
happiness!
Will you set your wit to a fool's?
A noise within
Why, Percy I killed myself and saw thee dead.
For I have lost us him on a dangerous sea.
In their continuance will not feel themselves.
Mars dote on you for his novices! what will ye do?
No remedy.
Which being so horrible, so bloody, must
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
You guard like men; 'tis well: but, by your leave,
And well we may come there by dinner-time.
The best I can, my lord.
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
Exeunt
long spoon.
A cunning man did calculate my birth
Be kind and courteous to this gentleman;
Here, kiss the book. Though thou canst swim like a
bear my bottle: fellow Trinculo, we'll fill him by
Think'st thou that I will leave my kingly throne,
And that the French were almost ten to one,
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Stand!
'In witness whereof the parties interchangeably'--
fit for your o'er-looking.
For vainer hours and tutors not so careful.
And pluck the crown from feeble Henry's head:
For my being absent? whereunto I never
How now! where's your master?
For though my soul disputes well with my sense,
Are prized by their masters: believe't, dear lord,
me say, 'saving your reverence, a husband:' and bad
ACT IV
The raven chides blackness.
Upon the head of valour; which indeed
To the possession of thy royal hand:
And would by combat make her good, so were I
Wilt thou accept of ransom? yea, or no.
I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
Ay, why not? Grace is grace, despite of all
Ha! fie, these filthy vices! It were as good
Whereof the king my brother stood possess'd.
and I profess requital to a hair's breadth; not
Either both or none.
Thou robb'st me of a moiety: he was my son;
Here she lets fall the sword
As you on him, Demetrius dote on you!
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
If not, why then, this parting was well made.
Against the walls of Athens.
Of Pericles, to rage the city turn,
Will take again your queen as yours at first,
For there's the house: that chain will I bestow--
Shall pierce a jot. There's gold to pay soldiers:
O, she did so course o'er my exteriors with such a
But fare ye well: 'tis partly my own fault;
By heaven, I rather would have been his hangman.
Why, that's all one.
Most honour'd madam,
Presuming on their changeful potency.
Of that black name, Edward, Black Prince of Wales;
free entertainment.
May it please your honour, my lord hath sent--
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
The army marvell'd at it, and, in the last,
Music
Amen, so I had mine: is not that a good word?
Enter Soldiers, with the body of JOHN TALBOT
Pray now, no more: my mother,
Either his notion weakens, his discernings
Never pray more; abandon all remorse;
Away, I say; I charge ye, bear her hence.
The lamb entreats the butcher: where's thy knife?
As if you were a feasted one and not
That she, poor wretch, for grief can speak no more;
Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,
Not now, sweet Desdemona; some other time.
Falstaff, that old white-bearded Satan.
O excellent!
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
Come, I must bring you to our captain's cave:
your ladyship. I have your own letter that induced
Nothing.
Those that would mischief me than those that do!
An he had been cannibally given, he might have
I'll attend your lordship.
Aside
And, for that dowry, I'll assure her of
Now the condition.
Than music from the spheres.
Withdraw thee, Valentine: who's this comes here?
To her unworthiness: it nothing steads us
As they contend with thee in courtesy.
Here: what's the matter?
Exit
Come, Master Shallow; come, son Slender, in.
You have show'd a tender fatherly regard,
be sworn: for my own part, I came in late. What
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
Flourish. Exeunt
And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
bastard, what a joyful father wouldst thou make me!
Of nature and of nations speak aloud
The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,
Then homeward every man attach the hand
You're fall'n into a princely hand, fear nothing:
friend for a man. I keep but three men and a boy
If voluble and sharp discourse be marr'd,
This cause of Rome and chastised with arms
In this so never-needed help, yet do not
Yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend,
Some certain of your brethren roar'd and ran
Part, fools!
These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.
Thus, leaning on mine elbow, I begin,
I am not furnish'd with the present money;
Rugby, come to the court with me. By gar, if I have
We cannot keep the town.
Which pillage they with merry march bring home
Thy spite on mortal flies:
Whose procreation, residence, and birth,
First, there is the Neapolitan prince.
Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS
Thrust from the company of awful men:
You boggle shrewdly, every feather stars you.
That had a royal lover, took his hint;
against May.
Did share it.
Have you no countermand for Claudio yet,
I will not bed her.
Hope I may choose, sir.
struck him first, yet it's no matter for that.
Well, I promised you a dinner. Come, come, walk in
Against the hospitable canon, would I
Had still kept loyal to possession
Shall disturb this hallow'd house:
Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform'd?
Hath he forgot he is his sovereign?
Indeed, you shall not.
And soberly did mount an arm-gaunt steed,
Under the colour of commending him,
Here is the regent, sir, of Mytilene
Decline all this, and see what now thou art:
Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch.
The sullen passage of thy weary steps
Myself had notice of your conventicles--
This was my speech, and I will speak't again--
I would the gods had nothing else to do
That such an army could be drawn in France,
I'll do't before I speak,--that you make known
I left no reverend person in this court;
And chastise with the valour of my tongue
Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter
Thither go these news, as fast as horse can
Trumpets sound within
Which to preserve is sleep, which being spotted
Who does he accuse?
Let us survey the vantage of the field
Knowing she will not lose her wonted greatness,
Will you tell me that?
will sully: in Barbary, sir, it cannot come to so much.
though I cannot remember what I did when you made me
But, whatsoe'er thou takest me for, I'm sure
And thereupon thou speak'st the fairest shoot.
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;
I've hope to live, and am prepared to die.
Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
And, clasping to the mast, endured a sea
Men's vows are women's traitors! All good seeming,
Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw.
Exeunt
to his legs again?
No? when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she
As cause had call'd you up, have held him to
South-west.
Farewell, sweet queen.
And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven,
Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar,
finds no other advantage in the process but only the
With all my heart.
Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
And lived by looking on his images:
Your master's confidence was above mine;
Now do I long to hear how you were found;
He's coming hither: now, i' the night, i' the haste,
And woes by wrong imaginations lose
That for the fault's love is the offender friended.
Vices, I would say, sir. I know this man well: he
I understand the business, I hear it: to have an
I have access my own love to prefer:
To say the truth, it is your policy
Most willingly;
I was as willing to grapple as he was to board.
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.
Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
Yea, strike the Dauphin blind to look on us.
But ever puny whipster gets my sword:
My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye,
conscience. The poor Transylvanian is dead, that
This is the fruit of rashness! Mark'd you not
Been all the worth of's car. Away to Britain
My lord, do you see these meteors? do you behold
With us in Venice, if it be denied,
You might do much.
O excellent! I love long life better than figs.
Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in
That I may live to say, The dog is dead!
You are the musty chaff; and you are smelt
Enter FLUELLEN
But every rub is smoothed on our way.
To the discontented members, the mutinous parts
With those clear rays which she infused on me
wore three-pile; but now I am out of service:
Admirable: how this grace
marries Aliena, shall you marry her: I know into
Do strike at my injustice.
Trembled and shook; for why, he stamp'd and swore,
To unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd
Alarum. Enter MARK ANTONY, in a march; SCARUS, with others
That have revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
Either for life or death, upon the earth
ANTIPHOLUS
of his own judgments, wherein so curiously he had
It was a handkerchief, an antique token
Thus violently redress.
Come, good Athenian.
Too curst is more than curst: I shall lessen God's
Exit POLONIUS
A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick;
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
Till time beget some careful remedy.
Why was my Cressid then so hard to win?
How long is that since?
Almost too small for sight: the murmuring surge,
I know his eye doth homage otherwhere,
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous.
And tire the hearer with a book of words.
Met we on hill, in dale, forest or mead,
I'll speak a prophecy ere I go:
A visage of demand; for, I do fear,
And that unbodied figure of the thought
And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks.
I will, my lord: God give your grace good rest!
Or by some other.
Now the witch take me, if I meant it thus!
Unto a poor but worthy gentleman: she's wedded;
Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
For fair without the fair within to hide:
The Knights and Ladies dance
Did lose his lustre: I did hear him groan:
The more I hate, the more he follows me.
More counsel with more money, bounteous Timon.
I have not sounded him, nor he deliver'd
Mark then abounding valour in our English,
I will forget my nature. So kind a father! Be my
Stand fast, Titinius: we must out and talk.
Take hence this Jack, and whip him.
To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,
tell-tale nor no breed-bate: his worst fault is,
What woman, then?
Well, sir, we must have you find your legs. Sirrah
honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'ld beat
Take heed, lest by your heat you burn yourselves.
King Henry, be thy title right or wrong,
Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail
Turning with splendor of his precious eye
While that the armed hand doth fight abroad,
Skulking in corners? wishing clocks more swift?
What can go well, when we have run so ill?
Come, boy.
Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life:
In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
Mistress Ford, I cannot cog, I cannot prate,
Upon his body that slaughter'd him!
Longer than swiftest expedition
To me, sir? why, you gave no gold to me.
But many a many foot of land the worse.
womanhood and the witness of a good conscience,
Keeps honour bright: to have done is to hang
Which be the malefactors?
I do not think but Desdemona's honest.
The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen;
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth!
And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn
been cozened and beaten too. If it should come to
all shall eat and drink on my score; and I will
[Aside]  His words do take possession of my bosom.
abate her nothing, though I profess myself her
The day that she was missing he was here:
Why, my good lord, you need not fear;
For she had a tongue with a tang,
Enter Pyramus
The fraud of men was ever so,
Exeunt COMINIUS and MENENIUS
Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art.
And mercy then will breathe within your lips,
'Tis past eight already, sir.
Come, Clarence, come; thou wilt, if Warwick call.
For to supply the places at the table,
But she perforce withholds the loved boy,
And this weak and idle theme,
My good lords both, with all the heed I may.
The words expressly are 'a pound of flesh:'
Ne'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed,
Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk,
Experience, O, thou disprovest report!
So thou refuse to drink my dear sons' blood.
That joineth Rouen unto her countrymen,
crave your assistance.
The Fifth Knight passes over
That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they
'Zounds, where thou wilt, lad; I'll make one; an I
And for the sake of them thou sorrowest for,
Re-enter MARIA, with SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
Exeunt Servants
O, yes, my lord, but very idle words:
my two mistresses: what a beast am I to slack it!
And my more-having would be as a sauce
Is all our company here?
Since it hath been beforehand with our griefs.
You were best call it 'daughter-beamed eyes.'
Why, that will I.
Enter VERNON and BASSET
Exit
My nobles leave me; and my state is braved,
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
For what?
Margaret.
Brave slip, sprung from the great Andronicus,
never drunk wine afore will go near to remove his
prevailing and to make it brief wars. This is true,
Exeunt
Your graces find me here part of a housewife,
Pray God you do.
Our army is ready; come, we'll after them.
So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
Tell me, Andronicus, doth this motion please thee?
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
like the brooch and the tooth-pick, which wear not
Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
He is a great observer and he looks
But stirr'd by Cleopatra.
So thrive I, as I truly swear the like!
I'd change my sex to be companion with them,
Yes, when his holy state is touch'd so near.
And prosperous be thy life in peace and war!
I rather would have lost my life betimes
I do, my lord.
Exeunt
friends, it shall be so far forth friendly
There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?
Promising to bring it to the Porpentine,
All curses madded Hecuba gave the Greeks,
As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou livest!
Yet tell'st thou not how thou wert entertain'd.
This is true that I say: an I had thee
bear this significant
Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN
Did he not send you twain?
news in Rome? I have a note from the Volscian state,
The king from Eltham I intend to steal
That if you now beheld them, your affections
While I with self-same kindness welcome thine.
To clap this royal bargain up of peace,
This story shall the good man teach his son;
Your friends are well and have them much commended.
Now, by mine honour, which is yet mine own,
That going shall be used with feet.
And thou, his yoke-fellow of equity,
What, hath the firmament more suns than one?
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
apparel them all in one livery, that they may agree
gone off, look you; and there is gallant and most
[Aside]  Scarce can I speak, my choler is so great:
And whirl along with thee about the globe.
And Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear
That in the captain's but a choleric word,
In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make
But yet 'tis one.
You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
At the first opening of the gorgeous east,
They have been violent to me and mine.
Who holds his state at door, 'mongst pursuivants,
Hotspur of the north; he that kills me some six or
Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose
That can translate the stubbornness of fortune
An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer; one
John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole,
As, to the Tower, I thought, I would have play'd
I have possess'd you with and think them strong;
There will the lovely Roman ladies troop:
Know that this gold must coin a stratagem,
Commend me to one Hubert with your king:
Make mingle with rattling tabourines;
I thank him, that he cuts me from my tale,
if you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
Garnish'd and deck'd in modest complement,
Exit
As he controll'd the war; but one of these--
And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,
Thou wondrous man.
What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,
The other to enjoy by rage and war:
SCENE II. London. The palace.
Exeunt
What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you put
Priapus, and undo a whole generation. We must
And in your search spend your adventurous worth;
Could best express how slow his soul sail'd on,
This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn,
And here was left by the sailors. Thou, my slave,
Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
SCENE I. A public place.
Twice to your visor, and half once to you.
Seem they in motion? Here are sever'd lips,
to extend him; be it but to fortify her judgment,
me?--that most are affected to these.
Bring me word how tall she is. Pity me, Charmian,
Syenna's brother.
How now, Malvolio!
This is old: what is the success?
for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom, the
I know thy errand, I will go with thee:
A mother's tears in passion for her son:
His army is a ragged multitude
He needs must see himself.
Nay, if you have not, to it again;
Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
And what of him?
Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight,
In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
Better thou
His rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate
Let us pursue him ere the writs go forth.
Yet do thy cheeks look red as Titan's face
Good Enobarbus, 'tis a worthy deed,
dry oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle
it makes here: I am unfortunate in the infirmity,
her help to put you in your place again: she is of
If at Philippi we do face him there,
A market-maid to Rome; and have prevented
Hold up thy hand, make signal of thy hope.
I prithee, beat thy drum, and get thee gone.
So rich advantage of a promised glory
And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
The rest will comfort, for thy counsel's sound.
Pots, and, I think, forty more; all great doers in
I did impeticos thy gratillity; for Malvolio's nose
But that her flight prevented it, she had
Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
And whereso'er this foot of mine doth tread,
Go, bear him in thine arms.
To conquer France, his true inheritance?
O, bear me witness, night,--
Come, come, we know your meaning, brother
Appals our numbers: haste we, Diomed,
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear,
Virtue is choked with foul ambition
And that's true too.
That so the shadows be not unappeased,
That he misconstrues all that you have done.
The rudeness that hath appeared in me have I
My health and happy being at your court.
was outrun on Cotsall.
Let's, mock them still, as well known as disguised:
And, till she come, as truly as to heaven
Dat it is not be de fashion pour les ladies of
Throws them down
He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so
Hark, hark! I hear him, mistress. fly, be gone!
bill; and many a time, when I have been dry and
But this exceeding posting day and night
Which had superfluous kings for messengers
Which in your outward actions shows itself
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
not worth the feeding.
Madam, this is a mere distraction;
To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses,--
[Aside to NORFOLK]          I another.
as you are, against 'em: know you me yet?
Where is your mother?'
This I must say,
That sought to be encompass'd with your crown:
Why, stand-under and under-stand is all one.
O sweet Revenge, now do I come to thee;
Enter TITUS LARTIUS, with his power, from the pursuit
Whose humble means match not his haughty mind:
The hopes of court! my hopes in heaven do dwell.
O, my good lord, yonder's foul murders done!
For in the temple by and by with us
Well, she laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn
And let your mind be coupled with your words.
Are ye fantastical, or that indeed
That honourable day shall ne'er be seen.
Distinction, with a broad and powerful fan,
And pat he comes like the catastrophe of the old
Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know,
against God's peace and the king's, we charge and
Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Capitol.
SCENE I. A hall in LEONATO'S house.
Shake in and out the rivet: and at this sport
Drawn by report, adventurous by desire,
Any beginning to this peevish odds;
There hath been in Rome strange insurrections; the
A third thinks, without expense at all,
So, the good horse is mine.
Which in my childhood I did dote upon;
Why, what is he? as good a man as York.
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
want not, time and place will be fruitfully offered.
Exeunt
'Tis thought the king is dead; we will not stay.
In those unfledged days was my wife a girl;
You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
Fool!
The blood, and dearest-valued blood, of France.
Between their births.
Exit, pursued by a bear
That those which fly before the battle ends
These bloody accidents must excuse my manners,
How is this justified?
An if the devil come and roar for them,
me to ridiculous smiling. O, pardon me, my stars!
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
Come, let me see what task I have to do.
Exit
Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
Both field and city ours, he never stood
'Tis not an hour since I left him there.
am I myself?
For your claim, fair sister,
Else had she with her father ranged along.
Their blood is caked, 'tis cold, it seldom flows;
What I believe I'll wail,
Worthy his goodness. What might I have been,
Of my consent that she should be your wife.
Yet pause awhile:
You minion, you, are these your customers?
With better appetite.
Stand close: this is the same Athenian.
Or sent to Naples. Let me not,
How now, Oswald!
Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part;
If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men!
Were rich and honourable; besides, the gentleman
Well said, Lord Sands;
For what you seem to fear: so, the gods keep you,
O,--vocativo, O.
Go to the Douglas, and deliver him
Exeunt
And would afford my speechless vizard half.
from a first.
half of my dowry.
Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning
and, I think, no other treasure to give your
My lord and sovereign, and thy vowed friend,
Her eyes are grey as glass, and so are mine:
And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona
Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death
sing it at her death.
Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
I will be assured I may; and, that I may be assured,
To appease an angry god.
How if I answer 'no'?
Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
Nor shalt not, till necessity be served.
very notes of admiration: they seemed almost, with
Longer to live most weary, and present
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
Behold, the French amazed vouchsafe a parle;
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart
Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard,
Exeunt
music and thy English broken; therefore, queen of
I know where it is situate.
To come near.
Ajax is grown self-will'd, and bears his head
Being thus crammed in the basket, a couple of Ford's
And more and richer, when he strains that lady:
I am son to the queen.
I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
A knot you are of damned blood-suckers!
If it be so to do good service, never
Into whose hand I give thy life.
The Earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment:
The period of thy tyranny approacheth.
What says he?
If I should tell my history, it would seem
I am glad of it; for now I shall have reason
When he is turn'd to poison?
Were poor and single business to contend
A thought of added honour torn from Hector.
And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand,
At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven.
Bind fast his corky arms.
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
To have him kill a king: poor trespasses,
SCENE II. Milan. Outside the DUKE's palace, under SILVIA's chamber.
And call me father? better burn it now
with two stones moe than's artificial one: he is
It is reported that he has taken their greatest
Quickly: and certainly she did you wrong; for you
Counter-cheque Quarrelsome: and so to the Lie
Approach, Sir Andrew: not to be abed after
We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too,
To your proceedings; yet believe me, prince,
If ever I were wilful-negligent,
lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient. Let's
On any soul removed but on his own.
Well, let her be admitted.
I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
Behold the window of my heart, mine eye,
The nature of bad news infects the teller.
Ha! Goneril, with a white beard! They flattered
Iago beckons me; now he begins the story.
cook. I speak to thee plain soldier: If thou canst
Let's away; follow me.
And find no cheque? Let us, my liege, to arms:
And full of purpose.
shent for speaking to you.
Well I know the man.
proved, wit! By the Lord, this love is as mad as
Though you untie the winds and let them fight
The nature of his great offence is dead,
Do not weep, do not weep. Alas the day!
Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell:
Took it in rage, though calm'd have given't again:
Still a-repairing, ever out of frame,
Swear that he shall, and then I will begin.
Lay all the weight ye can upon my patience,
More dregs than water, if my fears have eyes.
Those tender limbs of thine to the event
Thou slewest my husband Henry in the Tower,
One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant,
Which of you know Ford of this town?
Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
Have patience, sir; O, let it not be so!
familiar with men's pockets as their gloves or their
To swear, swears only not to be forsworn;
Discovering himself
Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
How fares my brother? why is he so sad?
for my labour.
You men of Kent,--
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
Advance our waving colours on the walls;
Will or exceed the common or be caught
No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;
She'll flay thy wolvish visage. Thou shalt find
men, as long as I have an eye to make difference of
Where be the thronging troops that follow'd thee?
blessing of God till I have issue o' my body; for
potato-finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry!
it follows,
That heart, which now abhors, to like his love.
for credit of the 'prentices.
O, reason not the need: our basest beggars
Rescue, my Lord of Norfolk, rescue, rescue!
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
Go to; thou hast it ad dunghill, at the fingers'
In at his window; set this up with wax
Exit Lord
I will resolve your grace immediately.
To a morning's holy office: the gates of monarchs
than you'ld think, sister.
A king of beasts, indeed; if aught but beasts,
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
Happy the parents of so fair a child;
No, good my lord; let's fight with gentle words
She was too fond of her most filthy bargain.
Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
Our king is not like him in that: he never killed
He reputes me a cannon; and the bullet, that's he:
No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
with pistols, that none shall issue out; otherwise
The captain that did bring me first on shore
And, by my soul, this pale and angry rose,
Thy topless deputation he puts on,
I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
Begin his fashion: do not talk of him,
Reads
And he that otherwise accounts of me,
monument of the victory will I bear;
Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Caesar.
But I do prophesy the election lights
Enter four or five Serving-men
And Brutus is an honourable man.
Tom Snout, the tinker.
Seeing AUTOLYCUS
He searcheth his pockets, and findeth certain papers
A giant traitor!
Then know, that from my soul I love thy daughter.
The glistering of this present, as my tale
He did behave his anger, ere 'twas spent,
I like you, lads; about your business straight;
Excellently done, if God did all.
ANTIPHOLUS
Bear with him, Brutus; 'tis his fashion.
Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
to your English.
enough in the shoulders, you care not who sees your
Enter GLOUCESTER, with his Serving-men in blue coats
Why, Petruchio is coming in a new hat and an old
Give me my robe, for I will go.
I fear some outrage, and I'll follow her.
Devised at first to keep the strong in awe:
Still confirmation:
ANTIPHOLUS
That all particulars of duty know,
Peace, I pray you. Now let us understand. There is
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
Why will you mew her up,
And fix'd his head upon our battlements.
No, not a whit: I find you passing gentle.
I then do most go right.
We'll talk of that hereafter. Prithee, speak,
How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
With no less terror than the elements
Therefore meet.
To have a worthy feeding: but I have it
If I be so disgracious in your sight,
If murdering innocents be executing,
O, they were all in lamentable cases!
A peace above all earthly dignities,
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
Pray now, sit down.
To join in Hymen's bands,
Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier: so they
A larger dare to our great enterprise,
By living low, where fortune cannot hurt me,
That kill'd thy daughter:--villain-like, I lie--
Sons,
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:
My lords, I care not, so much I am happy
You keep a constant temper.
The traitorous Warwick with the men of Bury
For we shall presently have need of you.
Where thou thyself dost air;--the queen o' the sky,
Confound themselves. 'Tis strange that death
married man more honourable than the bare brow of a
And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.
Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.
Exeunt
I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
I, with a troop of Florentines, will suddenly
Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.
For ere the glass, that now begins to run,
What think'st thou of the fair Sir Eglamour?
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites,
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
Come, neighbour.
How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
whisper him in your behalfs; and if it be in man
To Hymen, god of every town!
if you pardon, we will mend:
Till I do challenge it. Give him the crowns:
endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain
By wounding his belief in her renown
Be this sweet Helen's knell, and now forget her.
Of differences, which I least thought it fit
Did perish with the infant. 'Tis your counsel
Unless the adage must be verified,
Since that my beauty cannot please his eye,
Can clear me in't.
Take up my mistress' gown to his master's use!
the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humour
'Tis not a year or two shows us a man:
Of semblable import,--but he hath waged
business, and I will merrily accompany you home.
About the giving back the great seal to us,
As you are old and reverend, you should be wise.
My body up to shame.
Who have been false to Fulvia? Riotous madness,
Three times did Richard make a lane to me.
Than woman's lightness? Having waste ground enough,
What other
To Bedlam with him! is the man grown mad?
I will not wish ye half my miseries;
Now will he be swinged for reading my letter; an
Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes;
And was beheaded. Thus the Mortimers,
Keep off them, for you sink.
Sir Proteus, your father calls for you:
And yet we hear no tidings from the king;
Dropping upon thy head.
A strange beginning: 'borrow'd majesty!'
Is quite beyond mine arm, out of the blank
My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows.
Fortune is Bardolph's foe, and frowns on him;
Exeunt
The untuned and jarring senses, O, wind up
Why seek'st thou me? could not this make thee know,
Retaining but a quantity of life,
There is a gentlewoman in this town; her husband's
That I do groan withal. Thou art to die.
Your lady being so easy.
And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover
Baptista is a noble gentleman,
He shortens four years of my son's exile:
Or an old lion, or a lover's lute.
And therefore is he idle?
The sound is going away; let's follow it, and
That, if my speech offend a noble heart,
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
Enter a Captain
O, twice my father, twice am I thy son!
Let them want nothing that my house affords.
For going on death's net, whom none resist.
Gives him the letter
Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua.
In such a rustling time? Who leads his power?
Most veritable; therefore look to't well.
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
How honourable ladies sought my love,
Thou wilt o'ertake us, hence a mile or twain,
SCENE II. The Same. A street.
All my engagements I will construe to thee,
We were dissever'd: hastily lead away.
I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years
And go in peace, Humphrey, no less beloved
I would not kill thy unprepared spirit;
It must be thought on. If it pass against us,
Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
For policy sits above conscience.
Of pain: nay, we must think men are not gods,
Let me thy servant and not sovereign be:
O, that which I would hide from heaven's eye,
We have heard your miseries as far as Tyre,
That he's undrown'd.
And fellow'st nothing: then 'tis very credent
Let proof speak.
Should rift to hear me; and the words that follow'd
Made tame and most familiar to my nature,
Why is Time such a niggard of hair, being, as it is,
A loving nurse, a mother to his youth.
And, seeking death, find life: let it come on.
passion something and for no passion truly any
Set it down. Is ink and paper ready?
Wedding is great Juno's crown:
From meaning treason to our royal person
Speak you this in my praise, master?
My father will grant precious things as trifles.
And talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman
Exeunt JESSICA and LORENZO
For Henry, son unto a conqueror,
Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot.
Exit
Set on there! Never was a war did cease,
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
be thy chance to kill me,'--
If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
Instantly know; and of that letter too:
Exit Messenger
I' the boldness of your speech.
No, no; he'll [        ]
Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies:
You should be satisfied.
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain.
Here to make good the boisterous late appeal,
You must forsake this room, and go with us:
In changing hardiment with great Glendower:
In answer of which claim, the prince our master
by your hearing: all the peace you make in their
And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends,
And therefore mine shall save my brothers' lives.
I come to lose my arm, or win my sleeve.
Make we our march towards Birnam.
Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest--
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
Upbraid my falsehood! when they've said 'as false
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
thou shalt find I will most kindly requite. I had
Those wits, that think they have thee, do very oft
Some certain treason.
Or doth this churlish superscription
prologue to an egg and butter.
I am pale, Charmian.
Ah, soldier!
My lord, the roynish clown, at whom so oft
Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted.
A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth:
These lords, my noble fellows, if they please,
His tears proclaim'd his, parting with her: thence,
Sent from a sort of tinkers to the king.
Sennet. Exeunt all except BRUTUS and CASSIUS
And so let me entreat you leave the house.
tell you how.
My captain, and my emperor, let me say,
Are number'd in the travel of one mile?
I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my
Not virtuously on his own part beheld,
Never to hope again.
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly.
Have too a woman's heart; which ever yet
that you praised so to the queen? O, that I knew
And fetch the chain; by this I know 'tis made:
With such a number. What, must I come to you
churlish as the bear, slow as the elephant: a man
O, what a world of vile ill-favor'd faults
To entertain me as your steward still.
Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
Go, go, poor soul, I envy not thy glory
clean kept: for why, she sweats; a man may go over
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
I think 'twill serve, if he
And toil'd with works of war, retired himself
is past; it is, 'never tire.'
What we are come about, and by no means
You know no Centaur? you received no gold?
Well, I shall be wiser.
Here is your hand and seal for what I did.
These tidings nip me, and I hang the head
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone.
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
With thy brave bearing should I be in love,
There's meed for meed, death for a deadly deed!
and let 'em win the work: the devil was amongst
It shall be so, it shall be so; let him away:
Among the people gather up a tenth.
The Ladies make signs to CORIOLANUS
Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come;
host of de Jarteer to measure our weapon. By gar, I
And  [Censorinus,]  nobly named so,
Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail.
Our master and mistress seeks you; come, away, away!
Think, we had mothers; do not give advantage
Add thus much more, that no Italian priest
So, by your circumstance, I fear you'll prove.
Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys:
Then shall the realm of Albion
Shall have my Bianca's love.
Of what commands I should be subject to,
A loyal, just and upright gentleman:
EDMUND is borne off
good masters.
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea,
Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be king.
As you do love, fill to your mistress' lips,--
O, I have fed upon this woe already,
To think that or our cause or our performance
To win our daughter.
And drown me with their sweetness. O, come hither,
That Paris is returned home and hurt.
As ever in ambitious strength I did
her home again. She hath despised me rejoicingly,
Do you hear, my mad wenches?
SCENE II. A street.
Ever at the best, hearing well of your lordship.
And shall become you well, to entreat your captain
Retires
O, I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, in that.
Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours,
To desire this honest gentlewoman, your maid, to
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
As we his subjects have in wonder found,
Follow, I pray you.
And therefore, like herself, wise, fair and true,
A double blessing is a double grace,
However, but a folly bought with wit,
She speaks:
Re-enter HELENA
Know of me then, for now I speak to some purpose,
Have every pelting river made so proud
Presumptuous vassals, are you not ashamed
She never reprehended him but mildly,
and left nothing i' the middle: here comes one o'
is Claudio. I have known when there was no music
Contend not, sir; for we are gentlemen
Now let the general trumpet blow his blast,
To fetch my poor distracted husband hence.
Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt,
Let him not know't, and he's not robb'd at all.
A false conclusion: I hate it as an unfilled can.
And yours from long living!
My best attires: I am again for Cydnus,
My lord should to the heavens be contrary,
Enter CERIMON and THAISA
So may he ever do! and ever flourish,
her shoe, which is baser, guided by her foot, which
No, not to-night.
With all the nearest things to my heart, as well
Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
Are you sure
Hath from the number of his banish'd years
On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead
What say you of Kent?
Re-enter Servants with supper
I fear there will a worse come in his place.
And told thee to what purpose and what end.
That Edward still should live! 'True, noble prince!'
acquaintance?
But far beyond my depth: my high-blown pride
Standing like stone with thee.
I will embrace thee in it by and by.
Enter HUBERT
There's a palm presages chastity, if nothing else.
with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
Hast thou observed that? even she, I mean.
Dares stir a wing, if Warwick shake his bells.
The more delay'd, delighted. Be content;
No if thou dost say 'no' to my demand.
ACT V
Have you long sojourned there?
Of the whole body: but, if you do remember,
Peaseblossom.
A friend.
Vat is de clock, Jack?
Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
I kill'd the slave that was a-hanging thee.
But faults so countenanced, that the strong statutes
Away with it! come, let me have a bigger.
To appease their groaning shadows that are gone.
ACT V
My numbers lessened, and those few I have
progress through the guts of a beggar.
Never's my day, and then a kiss of you.
Rapine and Murder, you are welcome too.
Could not prevail with all their oratory,
'Convey,' the wise it call. 'Steal!' foh! a fico
Cade more: I think he hath a very fair warning.
Put but a little water in a spoon,
What he hath won, that hath he fortified:
Then let your will attend on their accords.
Of disobedience, or unduteous title,
know you the reason?
Carries no favour in't but Bertram's.
When he doth run his course. Antonius!
When rioting in Alexandria; you
Do 't in your parents' eyes! bankrupts, hold fast;
Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
They set him free without his ransom paid,
Lord of lords!
'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
The land is burning; Percy stands on high;
He is your brother, lords, sensibly fed
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
for one fair French maid that stands in my way.
A crew of pirates came and rescued me;
Exit
Soho, soho!
I am his brother, and I love him well.
Why will he not upon our fair request
Who will believe thee, Isabel?
herself. Be happy, lady; for you are like an
What, wilt thou hear some music,
Shall pass his quarter, or offend the stream
What misadventure is so early up,
Who bates mine honour shall not know my coin.
Like trees bedash'd with rain: in that sad time
And so they shall.
I will bethink me. May I speak with Antonio?
My thoughts, that labour to persuade my soul
O son! the night before thy wedding-day
good armour; and now will he lie ten nights awake,
Knight, you have beaten my men, killed my deer, and
My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
Re-enter CASSIO
Why do you rate my Lord of Suffolk thus?
I am robbed, sir, and beaten; my money and apparel
But, soft! no bedfellow!--O god s and goddesses!
The eldest son and heir of John of Gaunt,
Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
The poor mechanic porters crowding in
And with no less nobility of love
And dogged York, that reaches at the moon,
You are mine enemy, and make my challenge
Should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs,
WINTER.
His name with zealous fervor sanctify:
Of every virtue gives renown to men!
And dare us with his cap like larks.
Hark! they are coming from the field: shall we
Where as the king and queen do mean to hawk.
Where is the provost?
Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous.
Now is the mural down between the two neighbours.
Of him that best could speak, for feature, laming
trumpet: he is bold in his defence.'
No doubt, no doubt; O, 'tis a parlous boy;
Most true. The will! Let's stay and hear the will.
A nest of hollow bosoms, which he fills
I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things:
Re-enter the Hostess
I will, my liege.
Spaniard's mouth so watered, that he went to bed to
Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
I have by hard adventure found mine own.
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
As roughly as my modesty would let me.
Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.
Being so great, I have no need to beg.
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
Foot it featly here and there;
O sir, you are too sure an augurer;
Ay, but give me worship and quietness;
In bitterness. The common executioner,
If e'er your grace had speech with man so poor,
The strangeness of this business; at pick'd leisure
l'avez promis, il est content de vous donner la
Exit
No more; unless the next word that thou speak'st
Who half an hour since came from the Dauphin,
I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain:
Lips, do not move;
glory is to subdue men. Adieu, valour! rust rapier!
I prize above my dukedom.
ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his
But who did bid thee join with us?
calling? Look to the guests within.
How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife?
But with such general warranty of heaven
sanctimony she accomplished; and, there residing the
Re-enter Servants severally
pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
Ready to catch each other by the throat,
Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles
Becomes a warlike people, whom we reckon
Who, falling there to find his fellow forth,
Come, come, you wasp; i' faith, you are too angry.
widow Dido!
I'm weary of this charge, the gods can witness:
The king's eyes, that so long have slept upon
and spends what he borrows kindly in your company.
We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow?
Caesar's, to him I say, that Brutus' love to Caesar
Truly, I am so glad you have nobody here.
To one above itself. Each following day
Tell thou the lamentable tale of me
This is some fellow,
Say, what thing? what thing?
When, Lucius, when? awake, I say! what, Lucius!
Grief fills the room up of my absent child,
Old, cold, withered and of intolerable entrails?
That he is promised to be wived
Haply I do.
In second voice we'll not be satisfied;
Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.
And show of love as I was wont to have:
I would not hear your enemy say so,
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep;
To the freshest things now reigning and make stale
Will you help? an ass-head and a coxcomb and a
You have here, lady,
entreat you,--not to fear, not to tremble: my life
And who should find them but the empress' villain?
Nor his beauty.
He tells her something
I did not think you could have been so angry.
call upon you.
Come, bring in all together.
Believe it better than reportingly.
I'll make my will then, and, as sick men do
'Tis but early days.
And leads me to your eyes, where I o'erlook
Did move your greatness and this noble state
But by degree, stand in authentic place?
And see their blood, or die with this reproach.
Farewell: the leisure and the fearful time
Valour and pride excel themselves in Hector;
King Pepin, which deposed Childeric,
and vengeance bitter; but those that are germane to
Pertaining thereunto, as fights and fireworks,
Pulcher.
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
Divided in their dire division,
Like exhibition thou shalt have from me.
Go to; farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?
Or sell my title for a glorious grave.
modesty which is so lost.
What's the matter?
Re-enter LUCIUS
To the laundress, forsooth.
We will stay your leisure.
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
In doing daily wrongs. I could say more,
Appear thus to us?
Sennet. Exeunt CAESAR and all his Train, but CASCA
Come, madam, come; I in all haste was sent.
tell us when we meet at supper: how thirty, at
My snuff and loathed part of nature should
There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
I nursed her daughter, that you talk'd withal;
No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
And I'll not wish thee to her.
Enter LORENZO, JESSICA, and SALERIO, a Messenger from Venice
Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear;
he! why, he hath a horse better than the
You will do aught, this shall you do for me:
softly towards my kinsman's.
Re-enter OSWALD
Take thou that too, with multiplying bans!
maintain it to be fit, that, sons at perfect age,
Re-enter TITINIUS with MESSALA
Sirrah, naked fellow,--
Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
Enter Attendants
The duke was dumb and could not speak a word.
Is very good meat in lent
home; there's part of a power already footed: we
A saucy stranger in his court to mart
And will you pale your head in Henry's glory,
In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it.
Item, Anchovies and sack after supper, 2s. 6d.
The fields are near, and you are gallant grooms:
'If not, let me see thee a servant still.'
First pay me for the nursing of thy sons;
are very rascals since bonds disgraced them.
Of late with passions of some difference,
Before the sun shall see 's, we'll spill the blood
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.
have the best use of eyes to see the way of
There is no measure in the occasion that breeds;
I shall attend your leisure: but make haste;
Of credit infinite, highly beloved,
and one Mordake, and a thousand blue-caps more:
now. Your date is better in your pie and your
He wrings at some distress.
Shaking the bloody darts as he his bells.
And more thirsts after.
When crouching marrow in the bearer strong
Know the whole world, he is as valiant.
Great marshal to Henry the Sixth
And my large kingdom for a little grave,
venturing.
It shall become to serve all hopes conceived,
Marcius, 'tis true that you have lately told us;
any thing I want: offer me no money, I pray you;
in the forest.
A hundred, if they'll do you any good.
As any in Vienna, on my word.
To wind about my love with circumstance;
will run as far as God has any ground. O rare
Through a straight lane; the enemy full-hearted,
As I subscribe not that, nor any other,
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
There's not a one of them but in his house
No doubt well bring it to a happy issue.
I am to blame to be thus waited for.
Your highness with herself.
That fits as well as 'Tell me, good my lord,
[Reads]  'He is one of the noblest note, to whose
Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
Chid I for that at frugal nature's frame?
'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
I grant I am a woman; but withal
A thousand pound, Ha! a million: thy love is worth
In haste, post-haste, are come to join with you:
And now I find report a very liar;
break my shins against it.
Enter ESCALUS, Provost, and Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
For inequality; but let your reason serve
SCENE III. The forest.
Exeunt
beat not the bones of the buried: when he breathed,
A school-boy's top. Away with her! to prison!
That was not to be blamed in the command of the
Of benefit proceeding from our king
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
And hinder them from what this ecstasy
Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all;
I had other things to have spoken with her too from
By favours several which they did bestow.
Shall we resolve to woo these girls of France?
Ha, ha!
And question this most bloody piece of work,
On either side I come to spend my breath;
Stay here.
From John of Gaunt doth bring his pedigree,
Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero?
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
In beastly sort, dragg'd through the shameful field.
To the Tribunes
A many fools, that stand in better place,
'Sicilia is a so-forth:' 'tis far gone,
Stir up their servants to an act of rage,
I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
Shall as a carpet hang upon thy grave,
Nor I.
Case ye, case ye; on with your vizards: there 's
To CATESBY
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
With her?
Exit
Shall we be thus afflicted in his wreaks,
And never see day that the happy sees,
Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
That grief and patience, rooted in him both,
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
If not: we'll make you sit and rifle you.
Exit
Whose mouth is cover'd with rude-growing briers,
By faith and honour,
Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all the
I' the name of me--
fool him black and blue: shall we not, Sir Andrew?
Good morrow, sweet Hero.
Away! thou'rt a knave.
'Twixt natural son and sire! thou bright defiler
ACT IV
I may go the finer, I will live a bachelor.
Give me your hands all over, one by one.
Art thou my boy?
Of her awaking, here untimely lay
Sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n,
Away! vexation almost stops my breath,
The region of my breast; which forced such way,
ACT I
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Thy master is not there, who was indeed
And by herself, I will not tell you whose.
But mightier crimes are laid unto your charge,
And for mine too: when law can do no right,
And bade them speak to him: then prophet-like
Turn melancholy forth to funerals;
But that the scambling and unquiet time
How fine my master is! I am afraid
To CRANMER
Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all
If you will swear you have not done't, you lie;
Why should I joy in any abortive birth?
Hail, king! for so thou art: behold, where stands
I fear I am not in my perfect mind.
beef-witted lord!
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Soft! it smells most sweetly in my sense.
I trembling waked, and for a season after
Every thing is well.
What you have nobly done.
Endure a further view.
What, Lucius, ho!
And for that cause I trained thee to my house.
Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart,
Come, go with me into mine armoury;
Against a sworder! I see men's judgments are
But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well
What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
I'm worse than mad: I have kept back their foes,
inconstant, and mutability, and variation: and her
You saw
The devil take thy soul!
gentleman: I remember his name.
thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the
Who shall reward you better for my life
done. Marry, I would not do such a thing for a
company, and our devices known. In the meantime I
that hot termagant Scot had paid me scot and lot too.
sweet queen.
SCENE IV. Tarsus. A room in the Governor's house.
To come to me forthwith.
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
Is't possible? no sooner got but lost? The devil
Thou hast not left the value of a cord;
Subscribe to your deep oaths, and keep it too.
These famish'd beggars, weary of their lives;
'Hang-hog' is Latin for bacon, I warrant you.
Could he say less?
That stand'st between her father's ground and mine!
Good king, to be so mightily abused!
How called you the man you speak of, madam?
For your advancement! Do you understand me?
Are of the adder. Which of them shall I take?
First note that he is near you in descent,
No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
Ay, good fool.
Dumain transform'd! four woodcocks in a dish!
In love?
Lend me your knees, and all my life to come
Nay, then, thus:
Exit HERMIONE, guarded; with Ladies
That which thyself hast now disclosed to me.
Of this their purpose hither to this wood;
me, was yet of many accounted beautiful: but,
Rise from thy stool.
About Sir William Blomer,--
graver purpose, I hope.
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
The king shall have my service: but my prayers
I think so too.
To be your comforter when he is gone.
They have not been commanded, mighty sovereign:
And like an eagle o'er his aery towers,
O! O! O!
For him I thank your grace.
Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward.
Not for delights; times to repair our nature
More guarded than his fellows': see it done.
serpents, have
Trumpet within
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
For your desire to know what is between us,
Be made as soft as yours and let their palates
Be answer'd in his challenge: Ajax is ready.
We must proceed as we do find the people.
The merry songs of peace to all his neighbours:
They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,
Of divination in our sister work
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
I shall have it.
Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live;
your promise.
Enter COMINIUS, as it were in retire, with soldiers
What sayest thou, Mistress Quickly? How doth thy
By your leave, hostess.
He said he was gentle, but unfortunate;
these please you?
To CORIOLANUS
He descends. She ariseth
Whom envy hath immured within your walls!
But now the arbitrator of despairs,
derogation in't?
till then, sit thee down, sorrow!
When steel grows soft as the parasite's silk,
Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
Good Lord! you use this dalliance to excuse
There was never a truer rhyme. Let us cast away
It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.
Say but the word, and I will be his priest.
I will answer it straight; I have done all this.
all the world to be cowards; for I, that never
What claim lays she to thee?
Enter KING JOHN, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand,
Some such thing
This is All-Souls' day, fellows, is it not?
Say 'I am none of thine.'
as you are. Would we could see you at Corinth!
I am a poor man, and at your majesty's command.
Nor cheque my courage for what they can give,
This business is well ended.
How proud I am of thee and of thy gifts
This sword and these my wounds? Let the Egyptians
We wawl and cry. I will preach to thee: mark.
As mountain winds: but then exactly do
Should rob my bed-mate of my company.
I will embrace him with a soldier's arm,
No, Antony, take the lot: but, first
A borrow'd title hast thou bought too dear:
Only to despite them, I will endeavour any thing.
No noise, but silence and eternal sleep:
Health to your lordships.
Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate:
In that same place thou hast appointed me,
The wager you have laid.
For he is set so only to himself
All that pass by. It cannot hold: no reason
Take heed, my lord; the welfare of us all
Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten
Magic of bounty! all these spirits thy power
That knew the stars as I his characters;
While I remain above the ground, you shall
if he ask for me. I am ill, and gone to bed.
Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it,
The root of his opinion, which is rotten
The thing I am, by seeming otherwise.
I say thy husband: dost understand the word?
Their purpose is to parle, to court and dance;
Exeunt
Sigh'd truer breath; but that I see thee here,
Her vestal livery is but sick and green
Is all his soldiership. But he, sir, had the election:
We'll none of that: that have I told my love,
early: so that to go to bed after midnight is to go
If thou deny'st it twenty times, thou liest;
Clear up, fair queen, that cloudy countenance:
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
Another general shout!
Than what I fear; for always I am Caesar.
Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we
Thou disease of a friend, and not himself!
With these your white enchanting fingers touch'd,
Depart untouch'd.
good my lord, do not recompense me in making me a cuckold.
Trumpets cease
Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
I crave your honour's pardon.
At supper! where?
Holding the eternal spirit against her will,
From so divine a temple, to commix
fifth, the Prince of Morocco, who brings word the
Nor I, assure thee, Regan.
Wilt take thy chance with me? I will not say
to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such
Foul stigmatic, that's more than thou canst tell.
grandfather's.
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
Yea, with a bridegroom's fresh alacrity,
We'll execute your purpose, and put on
The many-colour'd Iris, rounds thine eye?
With many holiday and lady terms
Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
Fidele, sir. I have a kinsman who
Unto Antonio's house: away! make haste.
Thy honourable metal may be wrought
daughter's flight.
Madam, I will.
That in this spleen ridiculous appears,
Not I, I assure thee: setting the attractions of my
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO
Who servest thou under?
You live that shall cry woe for this after.
Re-enter BARDOLPH with sack
To think upon my pomp shall be my hell.
God's bread! it makes me mad:
And I unto the sea from whence I came.
Owy, cuppele gorge, permafoy,
Go, look after.
Poor shadows of Elysium, hence, and rest
Our nation's terror and their bloody scourge!
That led calm Henry, though he were a king,
But that defences, musters, preparations,
What if I do obey?
Lechery, by this hand; an index and obscure prologue
Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
Were there no more but it.
Given to the common enemy of man,
O, why rebuke you him that loves you so?
a Peg-a-Ramsey, and 'Three merry men be we.' Am not
I hope, sir, I will do as it shall become one that
should; he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse,
What does he mean? since death of my dear'st mother
life, to make thee a double-dealer; which, out of
Pardon me, sir, this jewel did she wear;
My Lord of Norfolk,--
neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention: I
How!
And what remains will hardly stop the mouth
Would be find up, my brother, with our thanks;
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
Sir king, all hail! the gods preserve you!
Delivered up again with peaceful words?
No, lady.
Was there with him, if I have heard a truth.
Till Harry's back-return again to France:
The constant service of the antique world,
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
Tell me where is fancy bred,
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
That when he speaks not like a citizen,
Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
Romeo is coming.
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
Troilus now! You shall see Troilus anon.
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
executed: I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.
Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest:
Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?
Exit Provost
You have no children, butchers! if you had,
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch;
Of Marcius?
English cudgel: you find it otherwise; and
Come hither: I am here.
The fit is strongest; evils that take leave,
Over your threshold: moneys is your suit
Which the commission of thy years and art
Your mariners are muleters, reapers, people
I, like a child, will go by thy direction.
That to the observer doth thy history
You shall not need, my fellow peers of Tyre,
blown up: marry, in blowing him down again, with
point. Four rogues in buckram let drive at me--
Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite
We are to speak in public; for this business
Uncle, your grace knows how to bear with him.
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
And if mine arm be heaved in the air,
Whither so late?
beard is less than a man: and he that is more than
From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
Upon this present action.
And joy that thou becomest King Henry's friend.
The wise man's folly is anatomized
But with a heart full of unstained love:
And those that bear them living.
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
And, when I am forgotten, as I shall be,
Come on, mistress: here's a gentlewoman denies all
I warrant. What, Robin, I say!
Let silence be commanded.
Thou shalt not damn my hand.
Do use you for my fool and chat with you,
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
You have an excellent armour; but let my horse have his due.
You having lands, and blest with beauteous wives,
Ay,
In spring time,  and c.
We may live, son, to shed many more.
What is't o'clock?
shall give you direction.
We coursed him at the heels, and had a purpose
I doubt not of your wisdom.
Exeunt
Isidore's Servant	There's the fool hangs on your back already.
O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.
Veni, vidi, vici; which to annothanize in the
O, good my lord!
God Neptune's annual feast to keep: from whence
Child of integrity, hath from my soul
Now is Mortimer lord of this city. And here, sitting
Put your grace in your pocket, sir, for this once,
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
Witness the tiring day and heavy night;
And on the proof, there is no more but this,--
Ay, that I do; and have done any time these three
Ay.
Thanks, good Egeus: what's the news with thee?
Is it therefore
his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous;
Nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem,
His guilt should be but idly posted over,
Is by a newer object quite forgotten.
The visitor will not give him o'er so.
That almost burst the deck.
defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
The king's attorney on the contrary
And now my tongue's use is to me no more
Minding true things by what their mockeries be.
And go to't with delight.
They call him Doricles; and boasts himself
Unquiet meals make ill digestions;
As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
Well, God give thee the spirit of persuasion and him
Cleopatra's majesty,
[Aside]            All the better: may
And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast.
Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
Too late? why, no; I, that do speak a word.
How now, you whoreson peasant!
I will tell you sensibly.
Hark, hark!
Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate
Then give you up to the mask'd Neptune and
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
fellows in the world, an a man could light on them,
I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder
There do I give to you and Jessica,
It must be great that can inherit us
As modest stillness and humility:
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
Forty days longer we do respite you;
This article, my liege, yourself must break;
I pray, let them be admitted.
A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a
Is twice the other twain: but let us rear
My lords, then, under favour, pardon me,
No, certainly.
A man that languishes in your displeasure.
Although I did admit it as a motive
That by degrees we mean to look into,
But all in vain are these mean obsequies;
Upon a parchment, and against this fire
great preparation.
I do digest the poison of thy flesh,
Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home,
For it engenders choler, planteth anger;
And utters it again when God doth please:
not forward, doth it?
Now fair befal thee and thy noble house!
him with a talent.
In that you brook it in, it makes him worse:
That's monstrous: O, that that were out!
Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head
Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow join'd.
To keep those many many bodies safe
all conveniency than suppliest me with the least
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
Though we upon this mountain's basis by
I would I knew his mind.
you tell me whether one Launcelot,
four of his blind brothers and sisters went to it.
Much castigation, exercise devout;
Not so:
How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
Fellow, come from the throng; look upon Caesar.
He has no children. All my pretty ones?
Even for this time I spend in talking to thee.
mouth. Therefore, precisely, can you carry your
Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of
do? when didst thou see me heave up my leg and make
Not easily, I think.
There will I visit Cleon, for the babe
Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
Exeunt
And not protector, of the king or realm.
And never gives to truth and virtue that
No; you'll reveal it.
As is the difference betwixt day and night
In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for
I will do so. But, look you, Cassius,
but in the figures and comparisons of it: as
need no more weight than mine own bowels. I have
jangling of the bells, that he should never have
And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross;
But, since thy outside looks so fair and warlike,
Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power,
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
To plainer ground.
Witches' mummy, maw and gulf
My son and I will have the wind of you:
Let us sit down and mark their yelping noise;
Thou didst accuse him of incontinency;
Dispraise the thing that you desire to buy:
Empty the basket, I say!
sit till you come.
No, by my troth, not so much as will serve to
No.
Such violent hands upon her tender life.
Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made,
SCENE II. Athens. A room in Timon's house.
I will desire you to live in the mean time, and eat
Be't when she weaved the sleided silk
How deeply you at once do touch me! Imogen,
A high hope for a low heaven: God grant us patience!
Than she a woman: 'tis such fools as you
good Aliena!
point-devise companions; such rackers of
Much attribute he hath, and much the reason
It must and shall be so: content thyself.
In best appointment all our regiments.
More sharp than this is.
Set 't down, let's look upon't.
I have a father, you a daughter, lost.
And bring you where both fire and food is ready.
A woman, master.
Did whisper often very secretly.
women, the virginal palms of your daughters, or with
Mass, I cannot tell.
With what else needful your good grace shall think
The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be
The gods grant them true!
Courage enough: I do not fear the flaw;
How esteemest thou me? I account of her beauty.
Signior Benedick that said so.
Or rather then set forward; for 'twill be
Keep him out.
Or both dissemble deeply their affections:
mother: thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I
Still exaction!
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
Would I not undergo for one calm look!
And cannot soon revolt and change your mind.
the Welshman with my cheese, an Irishman with my
And so it shall be so for Katharina.
I love thee brotherly, but envy much
Beat loud the tabourines, let the trumpets blow,
What harmony is this? My good friends, hark!
He is a god, and knows
O Cassius, if you could
Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen.
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
Who, though they cannot answer my distress,
The king will bid you battle presently.
'Be not afraid of greatness:' 'twas well writ.
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops
Matching thy inference. 'Tis not to make me jealous
Every offence is not a hate at first.
My master's mind.
If we be not relieved within this hour,
Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
There's a testril of me too: if one knight give a--
That trembles under his devouring paws;
Exeunt
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
Now, perjured Henry! wilt thou kneel for grace,
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Now, good my lord,
Noble lords,
Know of your love?
Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their grave.
nothing so fitly as to a whale; a' plays and
And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
We will spare for no wit, I warrant you; here's
Well, I'll not say what I intend for thee:
And brought with armed men back to Messina.
Beside the charge, the shame, imprisonment,
Should chance--
Through ranks of Greekish youth, and I have seen thee,
do than to confess she does: that is one of the
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
general says, you that have so traitorously
How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,
Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
They shall not live within this world, I swear,
Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke,
At nothing can be more. I'll to my book,
Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
Well with this lord: there was not full a month
Then God take mercy on brave Talbot's soul;
The trembling lamb environed with wolves.
To castigate thy pride, 'twere well: but thou
These vows are Hermia's: will you give her o'er?
Turn not thy scorns this way, Plantagenet.
O, you are a flattering boy: now I see you'll be a courtier.
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me,
PINDARUS ascends the hill
down indirectly to the Jew's house.
Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth.
Pray, set it down and rest you: when this burns,
Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace:
And we must take the current when it serves,
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
With me, a poor weak woman, fall'n from favour?
Softly, my masters! if you be gentlemen,
knock and call; hell speak like an Anthropophaginian
Stand forth, Lysander: and my gracious duke,
and a soldier; and now is he turned orthography; his
Your graces are right welcome.
Well, heaven send Anne Page no worse fortune! Tell
Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.
Descry a sail.
Even this ill night, your breathing shall expire,
I warrant you, my lord, more grace than boy.
Whilst you abide here.
When Hector's grandsire suck'd: he is old now;
Well, would I were gently put out of office
They're come from field: let us to Priam's hall,
Tell me, sweet uncle, what's the matter?
We have not spoke us yet of torchbearers.
I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song.
For this reason, if you'll know,
They say this town is full of cozenage,
What is it carries you away?
an ox, were nothing; he is both ox and ass. To be a
is writ. Look, the unfolding star calls up the
senses have but human conditions: his ceremonies
Portia, adieu. I have too grieved a heart
Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors;
Become a Christian and thy loving wife.
O woful day!
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
The nimble spirits in the arteries,
So wildly?
My thought, whose murder yet is but fantastical,
In personal suit to make me his lieutenant,
Thy mother took into her blameful bed
Prefer you to his daughter. Frame yourself
All happiness to your honour!
Thus Joan la Pucelle hath perform'd her word.
Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
Thy father slew my father; therefore, die.
He could not sit his mule.
Which obloquy set bars before my tongue,
Which beasts would cough at: thy palate then did deign
For revels, dances, masks and merry hours
In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;
Come hither, knight; come hither, Fabian: we'll
And I mine.
But when I call to mind your gracious favours
And what they undid did.
For the best turn i' the bed.
Of your accustom'd diligence to me.
That doth utter all men's ware-a.
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
My lord, this would not be believed in Venice,
I needs must rest me.
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,
Our swifter composition.
My voice is in my sword: thou bloodier villain
That you would have me seek into myself
Make it a darling like your precious eye;
I am to get a man,--whate'er he be,
The Volsces are in arms.
Achilles stands i' the entrance of his tent:
Where youth, and cost, and witless bravery keeps.
We would as willingly give cure as know.
Will you deny me now?
heels.' Well, the most courageous fiend bids me
and scatter'd,
He must have some attendants. Though his humour
As many devils entertain; and 'To her, boy,' say I.
Abate thy hour! Shine comforts from the east,
You will do it?
With chaces. And we understand him well,
Where thou wilt hit me dead?
Come in with me, Thersites.
Peace, drums!
I know he will be glad of our success;
Was not far off: then was I as a tree
That has no relish of salvation in't;
And sheathed their swords for lack of argument:
him, good heart.
Why, 'some are born great, some achieve greatness,
The crickets sing, and man's o'er-labour'd sense
And having thrown him from your watery grave,
And laugh this sport o'er by a country fire;
door would speak with you: he says he comes from
There lay he, stretched along, like a wounded knight.
Could not abide to be with; therefore wast thou
To take a tedious leave: thus losers part.
And take perforce my husband from the abbess.
It is a quarrel most unnatural,
Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet,
Most villanously; like a pedant that keeps a school
ANTIPHOLUS
For both, my lord.
a measure, and a cinque pace: the first suit is hot
No, my good lord, my friends are in the north.
So:
Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours;
Timandra had gold of him: he likewise enriched poor
My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
He that rides at high speed and with his pistol
Rebellion, flat rebellion!
Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem,
It is; you lie, you lie:
Ever true in loving be;
I know where I will wear this dagger then;
And module of confounded royalty.
Makest thou this shame thy pastime?
We must follow the leaders.
Enter MONTANO and two Gentlemen
in the view of the shepherd: so that all the
O, be thou Dian, and let her be Kate;
Rehearse that once more.
Re-enter GUIDERIUS
Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
That did renew old AEson.
strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
Thou hast years upon thee; and thou art too full
that same cowardly, giant-like ox-beef hath
Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,
Our general forces at Bridgenorth shall meet.
Of the old rage: bear with me, I am sick;
He hath wronged me, Master Page.
Exit
This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
Pluck up thy spirits; look cheerfully upon me.
My country's high pyramides my gibbet,
Makes this place Paradise.
gallants. We lost too much money this mart by being
Like or find fault; do as your pleasures are:
Let me entreat you.
Have I enjoy'd the golden dew of sleep,
else be incontinent before marriage: they are in
What's that 'ducdame'?
I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
but friends,
Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well beloved,
head, 'tis pride: but why, why? let him show us the
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
Exeunt
But we will plant some other in the throne,
Was cried incomparable; and the ensuing night
You are a Roman, are you?
Proud Cleopatra, when she met her Roman,
You are pardon'd, Isabel:
What kind of my obedience I should tender;
And thank the holy conclave for their loves:
make me honest.
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet.
And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hanged.
Why then, God's soldier be he!
When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive
grace, I hope: that were a trick indeed! but
'Twill not be lost.
Where in that nest of spicery they shall breed
SCENE II. A banqueting-room in Timon's house.
as sure as his guts are made of puddings.
No; thou shalt.
A crow without feather? Master, mean you so?
A goodly person: he hath lost his fellows
By my faith, sir, but it is; never any body saw it
Thou baggage, let me in.
We have as many friends as enemies.
Out of this fell devouring receptacle,
Must end that work the ides of March begun;
O Charmian, I will never go from hence.
The flat transgression of a schoolboy, who, being
Our trumpet call'd you to this gentle parle--
Well then the peace,
By him one step below, he by the next,
Is she not a modest young lady?
Indeed, the short and the long is, I serve the Jew,
Why, there's the privilege your beauty bears:
The grave does to the dead; for her male issue
Who, I? no; I defy thee: God's light, I was never
If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten
That can torment him much and hold him long,
And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
take my death, I never meant him any ill, nor the
And so, good morrow, servant.
To wear a kerchief! Would you were not sick!
He is afeard to come.
I have, as when the sun doth light a storm,
Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished;
You are the happier woman.
Interpretation will misquote our looks,
I said, an elder soldier, not a better:
I'll make so bold to call,
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
Than I myself, poor man.
Out of our virtues; who miscarrying,
I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
To meet the least occasion that may give me
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
Now by my soul, I would it were this hour.
the general's wife be stirring, tell her there's
Worthy Camillo,
Hath broke his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
God be wi' you; fare you well.
A kingdom for it was too small a bound;
Some stern untutor'd churl, and noble stock
Whence came you, sir?
weeks old as yet?
And liquor likewise will I give to thee,
Enter LORD FITZWATER
But that I told him, the revenging gods
see, there is such unity in the proofs. The mantle
Take my deserts to his, and join 'em both:
Where you may temper her by your persuasion
What an alteration of honour
That did affright the air at Agincourt?
Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
Conserved of maidens' hearts.
What employment have we here?
befriend me so far, as to use mine own words to him?
darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over
Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
Where you may abide till your date expire.
This wins him, liver and all.
Until my lord's return: for mine own part,
Therefore I think I am not in the night;
Brentford: but that my admirable dexterity of wit,
In feather'd briefness sails are fill'd,
Soft! who comes here? A friend of Antony's.
transform me to a piece of cheese!
of my complexion. Besides, she uses me with a more
And now at last, laden with horror's spoils,
time, but also how thou art accompanied: for though
Be thou a flatterer now, and seek to thrive
And justice always whirls in equal measure:
Your kindness better.
Enter the corpse of KING HENRY the Sixth, Gentlemen with halberds to guard it; LADY ANNE being the mourner
Tell thou the tale: but hadst thou not crossed me,
For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
Did I not meet thy friends? and did not they
Answer, and think upon this business.
O think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
On special dignities, which vacant lie
more wit than he, to take a fault upon me that he did,
And what they may incense him to, being apt
Why, this passes, Master Ford; you are not to go
And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
Some speedy messenger bid her repair
Good night, good night! parting is such
The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn
widows and nine maids is a simple coming-in for one
blushes of hers must be quenched with some present practise.
Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward
Why, this is excellent.
My brother and thy uncle, call'd Antonio--
And hold our best advantage.
desert. Cheerly, good Adam!
Of reasonable affairs? is he not stupid
Why, then they are not dead:
Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
Then set before my face the Lord Aumerle.
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
Aged sir, hands off.
Yet there's as little justice as at land:
fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.
A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
Your lord has betook himself to unknown travels,
But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
Art thou proud yet?
I do not like the man: had he been lay, my lord
Great king, within this coffin I present
and weighty.
And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace.
Although thou hast been conduct of my shame.
My nightingale,
unmannerly slave, that will thrust himself into
Whither will you have me? Why do you weep?
With bated breath and whispering humbleness, Say this;
Because he should have swallowed me too: and when I
To bloody thoughts and to revenge, I chose
Exeunt
Not in love neither? Then let us say you are sad,
Therefore let our alliance be combined,
That we were all, as some would seem to be,
Yes, and his ill conditions; and, in despite of
Though I am satisfied and need no more
I twice five hundred and their friends to piece 'em.
Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks:
What lets but one may enter at her window?
Than one which holds a trencher.
Say, Earl of Suffolk--if thy name be so--
Only to herald thee into his sight,
Unarm, sweet Hector.
O dear discretion, how his words are suited!
Whom I, with this obedient steel, three inches of it,
Tortive and errant from his course of growth.
Because we brave her: come.
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And in the height of this bath, when I was more than
As it is spoke, she never will admit me.
Stabs himself
With sweet musk-roses and with eglantine:
from her: she is no equal for his birth: you may
A largess universal like the sun
Dry up in her the organs of increase;
In mine own country, lords.
The roughest berry on the rudest hedge;
Four, Hal; I told thee four.
Mend 'em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort?
SCENE III. The same. The Forum.
The fore-recited practises; whereof
Avaunt, thou witch! Come, Dromio, let us go.
Knocking within
The moon shines fair; you may away by night:
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
Montez A cheval! My horse! varlet! laquais! ha!
The gods defend her! Bear him hence awhile.
O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
her as love hath pursued me; which hath been on the
Thy nature did commence in sufferance, time
And if I did but stir out of my bed,
The king is render'd lost.
I'll meet you at that place some hour hence.
If I should pay your worship those again,
There's but one down; the son is fled.
his weakness, and admire our sufferance. Bid him
Gall, worse than gall, the daintiest that they taste!
This compell'd fortune!--have your mouth fill'd up
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
As many other mannish cowards have
wed, there will I shame her.
To your obedience fifty fortresses,
seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion
Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain:
[Within]  I thought to have asked you.
Why, he stalks up and down like a peacock,--a stride
Having no other reason
Come, you transgressing slave; away!
Enter PARIS, TROILUS, AENEAS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, and DIOMEDES
What shall become of this? what will this do?
Appear'd to me, with other spritely shows
My liege, I am advised what I say,
Why hath it given me earnest of success,
Exit
I'll prat her.
And having brought our treasure where we will,
I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
But if you know not this, my manners tell me
Could be but recompensed, though you were crown'd
That all I see in you is worthy love,
Had not their bark been very slow of sail;
Upon his palm!--How now, you wanton calf!
But in a dream of friendship?
Loves me as dear as e'er my mother did,
Death is a fearful thing.
Since presently your souls must part your bodies--
Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
Fly off our loves again!
Especially in pride.
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
generally?
And now be it known to you my full intent.
Yes, indeed shall you, and taste gentlemen of all
Issuing life-blood. But is it true, Salerio?
Is that his answer?
Fall to the base earth from the firmament.
That such a crafty devil as is his mother
Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat
They durst not do 't;
And here it rests, that you'll procure the vicar
Love loving not itself none other can.
Your lady's love against some other maid
Grace of the duke, revenges to your heart,
greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou shouldst
My Lord of York, was not one Doctor Pace
O'erblows the filthy and contagious clouds
Before the eye and prospect of your town,
howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests
married under a bush like a beggar? Get you to
And will again commit them to their bonds,
If friend or foe, let him be gently used.
Enter, with drum and colours, ALBANY, GONERIL, and Soldiers
Exeunt
Rebellion's head, rise never till the wood
Say you so? then I shall pose you quickly.
Faith, and so it did.
your breeding.
Is she not a fair creature?
I did not bid you mar it to the time.
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
SCENE II. Bury St. Edmund's. A room of state.
Did hear a challenge urged more modestly,
Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim
Enforced from the old Assyrian slings:
Nor suffer others.
Ye are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues; look in
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland?
When will this fearful slumber have an end?
For certain friends that are both his and mine,
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty,
O, I am slain!
And I'll be sworn you would believe my saying,
He goes forth gallantly. That he and Caesar might
Cannot amend me; society is no comfort
Upon thy doings: thousand escapes of wit
'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike,
From son to son, some four or five descents
And hither shall he come: and he and I
From your good queen.
The suit which you demand is gone and dead:
Be merry, Kate. Some water, here; what, ho!
I know none. Can you tell me of any?
They sparkle still the right Promethean fire;
Thou mayst revenge. O slave!
rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
Enter LORD ROSS and LORD WILLOUGHBY
Here, my lord.
Though it be fit that Cassio have his place,
saving your honour's reverence, for stewed prunes;
--a most contagious treason come to light, look
It will be light, my lord, that you may bear it
If he should scorn me so apparently.
So I do.
My wind cooling my broth
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
I'll steal away.
all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.
The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.
More tedious than the dial eight score times?
against Benedick.
now should not the shoe speak a word for weeping:
That tears shall drown the wind. I have no spur
Exeunt
such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
Why, then, three-farthing worth of silk.
And would my father had left me no more!
Our gentry than our parents' noble names,
No;
Be not amazed, there's nothing hid from me:
Which the false man does easy. I'll to England.
The cockerel.
Is it not yours?
necessary and meet me to-morrow night in Eastcheap;
Killing their fruit with frowns? Can sodden water,
But, failing of her end by his strange absence,
There cannot be a pinch in death
contradiction, I have heard that.
Madam, yourself are not exempt in this,
Do not you know my lady's foot by the squier,
To wrong him with thy importunacy?
Enter a Guardsman
And mock for mock is only my intent.
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
The labour of each knight in his device.
say I, 'you counsel well:' to be ruled by my
But I do prize it at my love before
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, and DOUGLAS
deserved praise on my palfrey: it is a theme as
With smiling plenty and fair prosperous days!
Leave me, I pray, a little: pray you now:
He that doth naught with her, excepting one,
not have made him so ill, though he had been but two
A good demand.
Take that, and mend the plucking off the other.
May hourly fall upon ye!
Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound.
Lurk, lurk.
These things indeed you have articulate,
So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows
Prithee, peace.
Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
In my good brother's fault: I know not why
from you: how had you been my friends else? why
How the rogue roar'd!
Aumerle that was;
Whose glory fills the world with loud report.
both. I am the king; for so stands the comparison:
Ay, he was porn at Monmouth, Captain Gower. What
Thy case, dear friend,
prithee, let my meat make thee silent.
What news more?
Or in the heart, or in the head?
But all be buried in his gravity.
Your quondam wife swears still by Venus' glove:
Young, valiant, wise, and, no doubt, right royal,
But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor:
Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams,
Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice,
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and PARIS
At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep;
If I were covetous, ambitious or perverse,
Though angel on the outward side!
Shall find but bloody safety and untrue.
And so, farewell, for I must hence again.
Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be
For all this spice of your hypocrisy:
country, Sicilia, prithee speak no more; whose very
Exeunt
Ay, with my dagger in their bosoms, grandsire.
Your love deserves my thanks; but my desert
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Give me the crown. Here, cousin, seize the crown;
I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
Falls shrewdly to the purpose.
And he supposes me travell'd to Poland;
The centre is not big enough to bear
We'll borrow place of him.
Exit First Player
You know not why we came to visit you,--
Where your good word cannot advantage him,
him: if the devil have him not in fee-simple, with
Or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths.
I'll privily away. I love the people,
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Who thinks he knows that he ne'er knew my body,
Enter HUBERT
To the house of Signior Baptista Minola?
Lady, you know no rules of charity,
Doth by the idle comments that it makes
I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which
By all of us, and the fair soul herself
Or else for ever be confixed here,
for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.
Trebles thee o'er.
An honest man he is, and hates the slime
The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face;
But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.
She lacks instructions, for she seems a mistress
them: the lord mayor craves aid of your honour from
But, if we live, we'll be as sharp with you.
Each drop of us.
Perchance you will not bear them patiently.
bladder. There's villanous news abroad: here was
He'll then instruct us of this body. Young one,
Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserved:
Peace!
Shall make their harbour in our town, till we
look, a mouse! Peace, peace; this piece of toasted
And he that will not fight for such a hope.
And so, my lord protector, see them guarded
In different beds of lust; and never learn'd
Good Master Vernon, it is well objected:
a foolish knight,'--
Wallon and Picardy are friends to us,
And let it be more than Alcides' twelve.
And his soft couch defile.
That therefore I have forged, or am not able
Which care of them, not pity of myself,
That thou, vouchsafing here to visit me,
And never of the Nevils' noble race.
Go to the king; and let there be impawn'd
And would not put my reputation now
Here comes a messenger. What news?
From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither?
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
The middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the
I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.
Exit
Arrest thee of high treason, in the name
But we our kingdom's safety must so tender,
Plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven,
you, coz; marry, this, coz: there is, as 'twere, a
I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
The soldier's pole is fall'n: young boys and girls
Study to break it and not break my troth.
Waste it for you, like taper-light.
such an answer would stop them all. To be now a
Better than he, why, give my horse to Timon,
A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune
Re-enter QUEEN
You are a very simplicity 'oman: I pray you peace.
may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming?
You have seen and proved a fairer former fortune
As you did mean indeed to be our brother;
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
Exeunt
house, and some to Casca's; some to Ligarius': away, go!
Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality:
the very man. Here's his dry hand up and down: you
And show the reason of our Caesar's death:
had rather have it a head: an you use these blows
Thou art a villain to impeach me thus:
[Aside] It goes on, I see,
That you can let this go? Are you so gospell'd
Upon my head and all this famous land.
Shall, whiles thy head is warm and new cut off,
Too indirect for long continuance.
She's a gallant lady.
She doth indeed; my daughter says so: and the
He has broke my head across and has given Sir Toby
Speak, shall I call her in? Believe my words,
When stubbornly he did repugn the truth
Drum afar off
Their cheeks are paper. Why, what read you there
Of my poor babe, according to thine oath,
Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee,
Therefore I took your hands, but was, indeed,
Why, I am glad on't; this is well: stand up:
Was this King Priam's joy?
Think not the king did banish thee,
By gar, he has save his soul, dat he is no come; he
Yes, thou spokest well of me.
Enter DOLABELLA
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
O, let us pay the time but needful woe,
When sects and factions were newly born:
So brainsickly of things. Go get some water,
And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
one out of the table.
With rival-hating envy, set on you
O bloody Richard! miserable England!
May this, almost a miracle, be done?
qualities were level; Dian no queen of virgins, that
The second name of men, obeys his points
Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes
Therefore great France
He's shrewdly vexed at something: look, he has spied us.
Will drive away distemper. To some shade,
To men that understand you, words and weakness.
With us to break his neck.
The wish would make else an unquiet house.
And ask'd the mayor what meant this wilful silence:
and prabbles, and desire a marriage between Master
And signify this loving interview
If ever any malice in your heart
de son mauvais, corruptible, gros, et impudique, et
I call'd thee then poor shadow, painted queen;
Exeunt
friends, if we should ne'er have need of 'em? they
To-morrow, in mine opinion, is too sudden;
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
Well; go to; very well.
Say that some lady, as perhaps there is,
Alarums. MATTHEW GOFFE is slain, and all the rest. Then enter CADE, with his company.
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
Must bear my beating to his grave--shall join
Didst yield consent to disinherit him,
And every thing that seems unnatural.
ANTIPHOLUS
Prithee now,
That a king's children should be so convey'd,
I am not barren to bring forth complaints
With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
The king's physician: as he pass'd along,
Five justices' hands at it, and witnesses more than
Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
And lay this Angiers even to the ground;
But on us both did haggish age steal on
Come, my masters, let us share, and then to  horse
Did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed
Let me have your express opinions
Hath turn'd his balls to gun-stones; and his soul
It is not so; for how can this be true,
And he, long traded in it, makes it seem
The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
shuffle, to hedge and to lurch; and yet you, rogue,
As fester'd members rot but by degree,
you muddy knave.
For sinking under them.
Or gather wealth, I care not, with what envy:
That men are merriest when they are from home.
But I, for mere suspicion in that kind,
All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
I cannot believe that in her; she's full of
There is the playhouse now, there must you sit:
How in his suit he scorn'd you; but your loves,
father will hence to-night.
What warlike voice,
Exeunt all but MACBETH and LADY MACBETH
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
Whose fortunes Rome's best citizens applaud!
Above the morning lark or wilt thou hunt?
And often at his very loose decides
So you must be the first that gives this sentence,
Exeunt
debts are cleared between you and I, if I might but
For thee to murder: for my daughters, Richard,
Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath:
I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve
But what a point, my lord, your falcon made,
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
Nothing, sir, but that I am beaten.
Enter a Messenger
Speak 'gainst so great a number? How, in one house,
If good, why do I yield to that suggestion
Continue still in this so good a mind,
I have lived
Grace and remembrance be to you both,
And his kinsman too.
How poor Andromache shrills her dolours forth!
Here's no sound jest! the old man hath found their guilt;
Poor ignorant baubles!-- upon our terrible seas,
Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?
Vherefore vill you not meet-a me?
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
say if the importance were joy or sorrow; but in the
As I have made ye one, lords, one remain;
I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
Who calls so loud?
The king! why, who's that?
earwax: and the goodly transformation of Jupiter
Search for a jewel that too casually
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
The Grecians' cause.
And descant on mine own deformity:
We did, so please your highness.
Let me redeem my brothers both from death.
Stand close; I hear them coming.
great fire; and the master I speak of ever keeps a
Strike off his head.
There let them bide until we have devised
Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing.
We have led since thy exile. Think with thyself
What villain madam?
Have you done yet?
I know him well: you are welcome for his sake.
That makes his opening with this bigger key:
By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
Come, grin on me, and I will think thou smilest
A messenger from the galleys.
How to prevent the fiend, and to kill vermin.
What did the Russian whisper in your ear?
Than was his will to get me, as I think.
To make thee consul.
What is the matter, ho? who is't that cried?
Excellent good.
Stand in assured loss: take up, take up;
As procurator to your excellence,
I thank your grace for this high courtesy,
Which, as the dearest issue of his practise,
Most potent, grave, and reverend signiors,
And trouble not the peace.
O, here he is.
My oracle, my prophet! My dear cousin,
Must there no more be done?
Enter BAPTISTA and LUCENTIO
And leave her on such slight conditions.
Defy us to our worst: for, as I am a soldier,
A gentleman.
Gelidus timor occupat artus it is thee I fear.
Fear not: the forest is not three leagues off;
I cry you mercy, sir; and well could wish
Of malady of France;
Which I presume shall render you no blame
Is it your trick to make me ope the door,
Timon hath made his everlasting mansion
In all respects by me; nay, more, I doubt it not.
That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better
Exit
Pageants and sights of honour.
One Angelo, a goldsmith: do you know him?
a lute-string and now governed by stops.
I'll leave you: pray you, speak to 'em, I pray you,
What is the news from this good deputy?
Enforced thee! art thou king, and wilt be forced?
ANTIPHOLUS
Othello, leave some officer behind,
Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
Bestow'd his lips on that unworthy place,
Seem frosty? O, for honour of our land,
the idle husewife with me this afternoon.
Forestall prescience, and esteem no act
And teach your ears to list me with more heed.
But it becomes me well enough, does't not?
And now at length they overflow their banks.
Would own a name too dear. O, that the gods
That strike beside us.
Mark Antony, shall we give sign of battle?
For now I stand as one upon a rock
Then sit we down, and let us all consult.
my neighbours shall cry aim.
Draw lots who first shall die to lengthen life:
O, you have lived in desolation here,
Come, come, they are almost here. How many stand
SCENE II. The same. The field of battle.
There is no fear in him; let him not die;
I must with haste from hence.
Crack thy frail case! Apace, Eros, apace.
I stumbled when I saw: full oft 'tis seen,
Marry, now I can tell.
Let it appear so; make your vaunting true,
Doth from my senses take all feeling else
came any from mine that might offend your majesty.
Delivering o'er to executors pale
Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be;
And change misdoubt to resolution:
As with a woman. Come, you'll play with me, sir?
There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here,
But that I am bound in charity against it!
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn;
SCENE IV. The same.
A good sharp fellow: I will send for him; and
SCENE II. The Forum.
Lying with simple shells. O Lychorida,
out of hope.
Beyond a common joy, and set it down
My deeds upon my head! I crave the law,
Curster than she? why, 'tis impossible.
heaven, I do love: and it hath taught me to rhyme
To these injunctions every one doth swear
I can bear my part; you must know 'tis my
If in which time expired, he not return,
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  What does he mean?
How now, my flesh, my child!
thou think I  care for a satire or an epigram? No:
But let not therefore my good friends be grieved--
That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things,
That was and is the question of these wars.
perform, vowing more than the perfection of ten and
Be brief in it, to the castle; for my writ
Neither my husband nor the slave return'd,
Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.
Hath stuff'd these hollow vessels with their power,
Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But
Your banish'd honours and restore yourselves
So let it help me now against thy sword
cousin: I must say she is dead: and so, farewell.
Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou
Is't near dinner-time?
love-songs in their barks.
When he perceives the envious clouds are bent
Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say 't;
This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
For I have only been silent so long
As pledges of my fealty and love;
Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts,
Striking RODERIGO
Is at last gasp: return he cannot, nor
without it.
Our reasons laid before him, hath commanded
Here; swear then how thou escapedst.
To be such men as may besort your age,
And hell too strong for me to buckle with:
While I spare speech, which something now
I'll warrant you, 'tis as well:
That he would rather have Antonio's flesh
Of the full-fortuned Caesar ever shall
But that you take what doth to you belong,
For when would you, my lord, or you, or you,
Let me see.
church! Company, villanous company, hath been the
I would thou didst itch from head to foot and I had
He was my master; and I wore my life
But he; as loving his own pride and purposes,
But to the earth some special good doth give,
Whose fury not dissembled speaks his griefs:
I had lived a blessed time; for, from this instant,
To be o'erpower'd; and wilt thou, pupil-like,
Whether to knock against the gates of Rome,
To be set high in place, we did commend
In his rage and his wrath,
I do confess much of the hearing it but little of
Fall parti-colour'd lambs, and those were Jacob's.
That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
Well, we shall see your bearing.
Our slaughter'd friends the tackles; what of these?
Exeunt
Great men should drink with harness on their throats.
Name not the god, thou boy of tears!
That such a valiant company are fled.
A liberal rewarder of his friends:
if thou beest capable of things serious, thou must
Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge;
I had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse, DROMIO of Syracuse, and First Merchant
Out, gall!
Do not you love me?
'Tis like a pardon after execution:
To SILVIUS
Something I must do to procure me grace.
To-morrow, if you please to speak with me,
the peace: you have showed yourself a wise
Who is that calls so coldly?
Peruse this letter! Nothing almost sees miracles
misprised: but it shall not be so long; this
Royal queen!
So, ere you find where light in darkness lies,
know Anne's mind for that: never a woman in Windsor
Exeunt
Well, sir, this gentleman is come to me,
I do commend to your content:
'Faith, my acquaintance lies little amongst them.
She is a virtuous and a reverend lady:
The music, ho!
Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves
with two broken points: his horse hipped with an
Ye are too bold:
Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered:
I have reserved alive.
Pardon, guest-justice. A word, Mounseur Mockwater.
Which I respect not. I did send to you
Do, good old grandsire; and withal make known
by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by
Then slip I from her bum, down topples she,
Until I meet the king.
And mine, two hundred:
We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.
SCENE IV. Before Corioli.
Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
The English are embattled, you French peers.
Exeunt Ladies
Will you be prick'd in number of our friends;
Else would I have a fling at Winchester.
What, ho, the emperor's guard! The guard, what, ho!
With what is spoke already.
I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.
I make you both protectors of this land,
And not believes himself: down with the nose,
He had a black mouth that said other of him.
pierced, which is the one?
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
I do I know not what, and fear to find
But that the Scot on his unfurnish'd kingdom
your infamy circum circa,--a gig of a cuckold's horn.
And leave itself unfurnish'd. Yet look, how far
Speak and look back, and pry on every side,
have before gored the gentle bosom of peace with
Which, to be spoke, would torture thee.
Now, by my troth, if I had been remember'd,
Put me to some impatience: though I lose
to the same diseases, healed by the same means,
contemplation of my travels, in which my often
Till Pericles be dead,
Now that their souls are topful of offence.
What art thou?
And observation strange, my meaner ministers
I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worst
I come to him.
I warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.
Which she shall purchase with still lasting war.
Beseech you, tribunes, hear me but a word.
Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service
The sixth part of his substance, to be levied
When the moon shone, we did not see the candle.
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
He has a son, who shall be flayed alive; then
indeed, know not their fathers and therefore have no names.
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid;
thee with a downright blow!
Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more,
knaves as any in Messina.
dimensions, senses, affections, passions? fed with
Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
Diana's temple is not distant far,
That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud, and
My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.
Sirrah, what tidings? have you any letters?
you stolen his? or both? pray, what's the news?
You judge it straight a thing impossible
Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.
Be like a king and show my sail of greatness
With her that hateth thee and hates us all,
Exit Servant
Exeunt Citizens
Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master, and
When Antony found Julius Caesar dead,
Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
Lo, now, if it lay in their hands to make me a
This hand was made to handle naught but gold.
so, Master Page? He hath wronged me; indeed he
Save what is opposite to England's love.
I'll follow and outstare him.
Must tarre the mastiffs on, as 'twere their bone.
To Athens will I bear my folly back
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
I thank you. How does Lieutenant Cassio?
To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty,
Pardon and terms of love to all of you?
Conduct me to the queen.
Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it.
He is thy crutch; now if thou lose thy stay,
Or like a cunning instrument cased up,
Till seven at night: to make society
Is this most constant wife; who, even now,
It may be worth thy pains; for I can sing
Shall make the gazer joy to see him tread.
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
Kneeling
fox; and for womanhood, Maid Marian may be the
That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
Ch'ill not let go, zir, without vurther 'casion.
Your bidding shall I do effectually.
Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur: if you
Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
Come, bustle, bustle; caparison my horse.
Look how we can, or sad or merrily,
How he determines further.
To see, now, how a jest shall come about!
Lords, give us leave: I'll try this widow's wit.
And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
Myself were mudded in that oozy bed
take the court for Paris-garden? ye rude slaves,
Enter MARK ANTONY, OCTAVIUS CAESAR, OCTAVIA between them, and Attendants
deities be despised. Lend to each man enough, that
condemn it as an improbable fiction.
SCENE II. Field of battle between the British and Roman camps.
That you will take your instant leave o' the king
I wake before the time that Romeo
In solemn show attend this funeral;
You'll give me leave to spare, when you shall find
Ere in our own house I do shade my head,
And who is your deer?
Pertains to the state; and front but in that file
a dangerous and lascivious boy, who is a whale to
And Master Slender's your master?
Calpurnia here, my wife, stays me at home:
But we are spirits of another sort:
A most unhappy one: I would do much
My Lord of Somerset, what youth is that,
I have none: do not talk to me, Emilia;
cheer.' So a' cried out 'God, God, God!' three or
I will avouch in presence of the king:
Our captains, Macbeth and Banquo?
I say lead is slow.
And heal the inveterate canker of one wound
Nay, then I'll run.
Exit
That my disports corrupt and taint my business,
And chides with thinking.
The Count Melun, a noble lord of France,
With this immodest clamorous outrage
To France, sweet Suffolk: let me hear from thee;
Exit Servant
And down, down, adown-a,  and c.
Go prick thy face, and over-red thy fear,
In so entitling me, and no less honest
Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain:
I knew him.
and unbuttoning thee after supper and sleeping upon
To make a shambles of the parliament-house!
To do me business in the veins o' the earth
Out, fool!
Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
Thou hast the most unsavoury similes and art indeed
haste before:
Renowned prince, how shall poor Henry live,
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
ACT I
What is it?
One side will mock another; the other too.
And you, sir.
I live with bread like you, feel want,
For now we sit to chat as well as eat.
He would not stay at your petitions: made
Some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart
Make it more like a tavern or a brothel
So I am, to let him live.
You bid me make it orderly and well,
My lords, look where the sturdy rebel sits,
Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother:
Prithee, no more.
Exeunt all but SOMERSET, HENRY OF RICHMOND, and OXFORD
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
Exit
While shame full late sleeps out the afternoon.
love her; yes, for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing
Of no more bondage be, to where they are made,
Whiles he was hastening, in the chase, it seems,
Against the Duke of Clarence, but have been
But, as I say, such as become a soldier,
I have convey'd aboard; and I have bought
And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars
Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
A Sennet. Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM and CATESBY
Exit
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
Dismiss me!
Which you do live upon; and fit it is,
Sir, as I think.
Shall I for love speak treason to thy face?
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
Cannot outfly our apprehensions.
Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care,
Exit
I do, truly; for thou swearest to me thou art
good a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so
The gates are open, let us enter too.
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
We'll serve Him too and be his fellow so:
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
Enter, in arms, LEWIS, SALISBURY, MELUN, PEMBROKE, BIGOT, and Soldiers
Say, is my kingdom lost? why, 'twas my care
As friendly as you were.
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
By humble message and by promised means:
Be well advised, tell o'er thy tale again:
Nor would I wish you.
Is gone with her along, and I must after,
taught her suitor,
Is true and false; and what he with his oath
Dost thou mock me?
To let a fellow that will take rewards
Come, come, peace.
Repose you there; while I to this hard house--
Will clear or end the business: when the oracle,
When what is done is like an hypocrite,
whence you have studied your questions.
What,
Enter, sir, the castle.
Enter FORTINBRAS, the English Ambassadors, and others
out of the court: they cherish it to make it stay
Exit ANNE PAGE
The itch of his affection should not then
would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window.
company; and the half shirt is two napkins tacked
As all think, for this business.
For she did speak in starts distractedly.
To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen,
Or but allay, the fire of passion.
went to span-counter for French crowns, I am content
blessing I am at him upon my knees every morning and
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
But cloaks and gowns, before this day, a many.
Why, there, there, there, there! a diamond gone,
deal with my master, he hath learnt me so much fence already.
RICHARD
That I will work against him: therefore your oaths
And hast a thing within thee called conscience,
To these two princes, if you marry them.
to the wall.
Loud music is too harsh for ladies' heads,
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
Well, come again to-morrow: fare thee well:
Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down
hereafter, rather than story him in his own hearing.
Besides, I have some business in the town.
As is fair Margaret he be link'd in love.
And being enfranchised, bid him come to me.
disclosed.
Is this the Lady Cressid?
Shall I attend your grace?
In our long absence: pray, do not deliver
With wanton Paris sleeps; and that's the quarrel.
In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern
remuneration:' why, it carries it. Remuneration!
To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,
To tread a measure with you on this grass.
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
I holp to frame thee. Do you know this lady?
Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
Re-enter BENVOLIO
Rush on his host, as doth the melted snow
Enter EDGAR and GLOUCESTER
That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
Nay, that I will not.
From what it purposed; since, to wail friends lost
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
Attended by my men: I will make bold
Were to remember that the present need
And make her bear the penance of her tongue?
Aside
of pewter. But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant
Lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves
And shall, sir; give's your hand.
Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
As fearfully as doth a galled rock
Did urge me in his act: I did inquire it;
Transformed with their fear; who swore they saw
Ay, there's the point, sir.
Preserved the Britons, was the Romans' bane.'
His queen with child makes her desire--
To bloody battles and to bruising arms.
so much as make water but in a sink-a-pace. What
There speak, and strike, brave boys, and take
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
Not bolds the king, with others, whom, I fear,
Bring them, I pray thee, with imagined speed
good prey of us, if he knew of it; for there is
what though? it will toast cheese, and it will
Will pack when it begins to rain,
You loved, I loved for intermission.
He that is truly dedicate to war
Pronounce that sentence then on me, my liege:
What now? how chance thou art return'd so soon?
O most divine Kate!
A thousand fiends, a thousand hissing snakes,
wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a
Be it for nothing but to spite my wife--
Ah, sweet ducks!
But I fear
more natural.
I will, my lord; and doubt not so to deal
He might return to vasty Tartar back,
doth most mistake in her gifts to women.
Enter LEONTES, ANTIGONUS, Lords, and Servants
pitiful-hearted Titan, that melted at the sweet tale
And glow with shame of your proceedings, Hubert:
Flourish. Exeunt
Give him the ring, and bring him, if thou canst,
Yourself, assisted with your honour'd friends,
Before young Talbot from old Talbot fly,
That is an old device; and it was play'd
Exeunt
Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst;
Sit, sir, sit.
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
I would have sworn it had, my lord; especially
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best
That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd,
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Alarums, excursions. Enter the BASTARD, with AUSTRIA'S head
And yet I know not: thou didst hate her deadly,
Dardan, and Tymbria, Helias, Chetas, Troien,
Well; come to me to-morrow.
We are enow yet living in the field
o'clock, early at Gadshill! there are pilgrims going
How now, daughter and cousin! are you crept hither
not a holiday fool there but would give a piece
Into destruction cast him.
Her fruit-trees all upturned, her hedges ruin'd,
That is, her love; for that is all in all.
Re-enter LUCIUS and MARCUS
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
Some enigma, some riddle: come, thy l'envoy; begin.
Until a time may serve: for present vengeance,
There left me and my man, both bound together;
You have made
And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou livest.
My lord, I know a discontented gentleman,
Come, sir, are you ready for death?
No, not a whit.
Yet sell your face for five pence and 'tis dear.
Enter HECTOR, TROILUS, AJAX, AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, MENELAUS, and DIOMEDES, with lights
Apt, in good faith; very apt. Well, go thy way; if
Why, brother Hector,
If we mean to thrive and do good, break open the
Leave me, or tarry, Edward will be king,
And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
Cambio!
And hang it round with all my wanton pictures:
The king is not at the palace; he is gone aboard a
Ah, Humphrey, can I bear this shameful yoke?
lamentable divorce under her colours are wonderfully
Thus says AEneas; one that knows the youth
Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
Upward of twenty years, and have been blest
'These are their reasons; they are natural;'
Heavens forgive it!
But, my good lord,--
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow.
Applauding our approach.
Even of your mettle, of your very blood;
The end of war's uncertain, but this certain,
was this directed to you?
A creature, that did bear the shape of man,
Or that for which I live; who once again
But since your falsehood shall become you well
How can that be?
Here comes the prince and Claudio.
last time he searched for him, in a basket; protests
Let me have your hand:
And let him say to England that we send
Hale him away, and let him talk no more.
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
When all's spent, he 'ld be cross'd then, an he could.
Ay, my lord.
Exit
She was here even now; she haunts me in every place.
Do well thrive by them and when they have lined
Play judge and executioner all himself,
humour-letter: I will keep the havior of reputation.
say there's but five upon this isle: we are three
If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
I saw't not, thought it not, it harm'd not me:
You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
the world, in the disciplines of the pristine wars
i' the country; for you'll be rotten ere you be half
Good Antony, your hand.
But for the certain knowledge of that truth
because it hath no bottom; and I will sing it in the
Come, come; sans compliment, what news abroad?
The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders
That Norfolk lies: here do I throw down this,
Who is't you mean?
I have ground the axe myself;
Hail, worthy Timon!
I turn the trouble of my countenance
Which, hearing them, would call their brothers fools.
him as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master;
TIMON comes from his cave
Ay, my lord.
Thyself domestic officers--thine enemy:
as since he hath been allowed the name of; but I
Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd,
Proclaim that I can sing, weave, sew, and dance,
Once more, adieu; the rest let sorrow say.
I have forgot him: my imagination
For yet is hope of life and victory.
Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
That neither in our hearts nor outward eyes
Come, Jaquenetta, away!
It is not good to cross him; give him way.
Not like to me, or any of my kin,
Now it is supper-time in Orleans:
ANTIPHOLUS
think the duke hath lost never a man, but one that
Dearer than eye-sight, space, and liberty;
Fie, fie, unreverend tongue! to call her bad,
is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain
And substituted in the place of mine,
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
thus; and then the people fell a-shouting.
We will with some strange pastime solace them,
We shall o'erturn it topsy-turvy down.
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,
No, I'll not rear
Sir Proteus, gentle lady, and your servant.
Do not, my lord.
O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world
In sign whereof I pluck a white rose too.
And thither I will send you Matthew Goffe;
manhood, what an arrant, rascally, beggarly, lousy
I will lay trust upon thee; and thou shalt find a
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
We will discharge our duty.
Because thy father Henry did usurp;
That thou depart'st hence safe,
Your mystery, your mystery: nay, dispatch.
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
Like Sir Actaeon he, with Ringwood at thy heels:
Till thou give joy; until thou bid me joy,
That, being mad herself, she's madly mated.
feed on the air, I am one that am nourished by my
O my gentle cousin,
It should be challenged.
I spy.
Her only fault, and that is faults enough,
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;
How many would the peaceful city quit,
A moiety of the throne a great king's daughter,
Enter FENTON and Host
[Within]  Who's within there? ho!
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
This shall I undertake; and 'tis a burden
A drench for sur-rein'd jades, their barley-broth,
Have at you with a proverb--Shall I set in my staff?
I'll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall;
With shears his thread of silk.
Cool it with a baboon's blood,
Posthumus, thy head, which now is growing upon thy
Yet you desire to marry.
My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring:
Hath she to change our loves. Beseech you, sir,
Whiles I take order for mine own affairs.
Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
Have the like oaths: he had sworn to marry me
her.
By his great authority;
You are too senseless--obstinate, my lord,
I hope so.
And chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
Upon malicious bravery, dost thou come
be a jewel that I have purchased at an infinite
And if not that, I bring you witnesses,
Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love,
Let us wag, then.
myself, fellow Curtis.
Let me persuade you take a better course.
We can afford no more at such a price.
To this good purpose, that so fairly shows,
Come, come, away.
I come, in kindness and unfeigned love,
Left in the conduct of the bold Iago,
I could be merry now. Hubert, I love thee;
Presenteth Moonshine; for, if you will know,
Of thy deceased brother Geffrey's son,
Exeunt
That here I kiss her as my sovereign queen.
I am a tainted wether of the flock,
Sir,
Wiped off, in honourable keeping her.
At Ely House.
No, sweet Octavia,
To join with Mortimer, ha?
A sequester from liberty, fasting and prayer,
sufficiently manage, must either stay to execute
That he should be my fool and I his fate.
No, my lord.
The watch-dogs bark!
For it is unpeopled? No:
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
as I expect my revenge. That part thou, Pisanio,
I shall unfold to thee, as we are going
From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.
et en peu de temps.
If my offence be of such mortal kind
Of all that I do know: nor know I aught
Ere they lack'd power to cross you.
By their own fear or sloth.
Marvellous sweet music!
This one hand yet is left to cut your throats,
My gracious liege, when that my father lived,
If your diligence be not speedy, I shall be there afore you.
That I may save my speech: do but go after,
Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear,
Bear them from hence. Our present business
Not I, believe me.
Beating him
think the Frenchman became his surety and sealed
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all
And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounter
Exeunt
Go to, you're a dry fool; I'll no more of you:
Her infinite cunning, with her modern grace,
But Joan la Pucelle shall be France's saint.
And by other warranted testimony.
But better service have I never done you
That both mine eyes were rainy like to his :
write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.
Your office, sergeant; execute it.
Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid,
Come, let us four to dinner: I dare say
forest lays claim to you.
Will leave us never an understanding friend.
What answer makes your grace unto my suit?
By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear
mustard was naught: now I'll stand to it, the
O, no, no, no.
with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered
conscience, I should stay with the Jew my master,
Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt?
It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment, to be taken
Do, good my friend.
What time o' day?
Might have been mine! only I have left to say,
May it please you noble madam, to withdraw
Why, 'tis good; it is the right of it; it must be
Enter FLAVIUS
For that John Mortimer, which now is dead,
a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross
garments, how you disgraced her, when you should
More than a mortal seeming. Be not angry,
To see these Grecian lords!--why, even already
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
I must offend before I be attainted;
And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear,
Yet wrung with wrongs more than our backs can bear:
Which we in justice cannot well deny,
Shalt waft them over with our royal fleet.
By heaven, he echoes me,
Bring this apparel to my chamber; that is the second
Resolved for flight. Now were I happy, if
Ay, or surly borne,--
In those freckles live their savours:
Hold, sir, or I'll throw your dagger o'er the house.
I pray thee, if it stand with honesty,
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
He has almost supp'd: why have you left the chamber?
the end, call me cut.
And bear the sow-skin budget,
We are not the first
My heart's deep languor and my soul's sad tears:
As when they are fresh.
loose any longer; you must be pinioned.
fustian with one's own shadow? O thou invisible
All the charactery of my sad brows:
If you'll stand fast, we'll beat them to their wives,
chez les narines de feu! When I bestride him, I
I shall, sir.
Who having pinch'd a few and made them cry,
Are daily given to ennoble those
When you sally upon him, speak what terrible
By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.
The skipping king, he ambled up and down
And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there.
No more words, we beseech you.
Thou art arm'd, Gloucester: let the trumpet sound:
You have no stomach having broke your fast;
Marry, as I told you before, John and Robert, be
For here I read for certain that my ships
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Faith, holy uncle, would
Whereto we are bound, together with thy victory,
Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my
For you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother
That's my master, master doctor.
My hair doth stand on end to hear her curses.
This king to Tarsus,--think his pilot thought;
He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
Reprove my allegation, if you can;
general course of action. 'Zounds, an I were now by
Aside
Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
You are deceived; my child is none of his:
The dearest ring in Venice will I give you,
and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.
Is oft the cause of fear. But, see, thy brother.
And never come mischance between us twain!
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities,
No note upon my parents, his all noble:
Humanity must perforce prey on itself,
Yes, 'faith heartily.
Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
Can make you greater than the Queen of Goths.
But that is not the question: the question is
Stand'st thou aloof upon comparison?
Of our most gracious mistress.
I know them both; th' other's a jeweller.
He will be here, and yet he is not here:
high-steward. With him, NORFOLK, with the
You! did you?
Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done:
When dying clouds contend with growing light,
Thunder
Thou hast my love: is not that neighbourly?
Upon a soldier's thigh: I have seen the day,
Had fasten'd him unto a small spare mast,
COUNTESS
And entrails feed the sacrificing fire,
please you to abrogate scurrility.
Tooth'd briers, sharp furzes, pricking goss and thorns,
Spoke like a tail fellow that respects his
Soon fall to ruin,--your noble self,
All which time
'Tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning;
That never slept a quiet hour with thee,
cardinally given, might have been accused in
swarths: the best persuaded of himself, so
Into three limits very equally:
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
To Northumberland
thee to some shelter; and thou shalt not die for
Remember what I have said.
mother: every Jack-slave hath his bellyful of
From my remembrance clearly banish'd his.
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
shillings and sixpence' and 'You are welcome,' with
Desires your majesty to leave the field
That I in rage might shoot them at your faces!
What if it should be so?
not? come, tell me true: it shall be the better for you.
desires, and fairies will not pinse you.
ancient; this is my right hand, and this is my left:
And we of thee: so if the time thrust forth
They laboured to plant the rightful heir,
To have me out of Egypt, made wars here;
The force of his own merit makes his way
For so you shall be, while you are a man;
Hear you, Patroclus:
a French hose: come in, tailor; here you may
With his most noble blood.
Isidore's Servant	From Isidore;
So mighty are his vowed enemies.
For after the stout Earl Northumberland
Madam, my lord will go away to-night;
night-raven, come what plague could have come after
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
Hark, one word in your ear.
Hector? where's Hector? I will none but Hector.
Hast thou forgot thyself? is it so long?
Thou must restore.
Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly:
But that the earthy and cold hand of death
O Buckingham, now do I play the touch,
shall not shame me.
Of godlike amity; which appears most strongly
That gives our Troy, our Rome, the civil wound.
that blind rascally boy that abuses every one's eyes
For making up this peace!' Thou know'st, great son,
I should do so: you shall be miss'd at court,
Or is it Dian, habited like her,
Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave.
Your hand, Leonato; we will go together.
If in your country wars you chance to die,
Whither?
Thieves for their robbery have authority
No, truly.
The Volsces have much corn; take these rats thither
SCENE II. Paris. The KING's palace.
He, that dares most, but wag his finger at thee:
Enter Second Merchant, ANGELO, and an Officer
The press of boats or pride: a piece of work
Gives but the greater feeling to the worse:
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
thee, or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy
How now! why look'st thou pale? why tremblest thou?
Or I would see his heart out, ere the priest
Who's yonder,
It is too heavy for your grace to wear.
Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
Prince Troilus, I have loved you night and day
And left sweet Pyramus translated there:
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes,
And of women.
If thou neglect'st or dost unwillingly
That hath more scars of sorrow in his heart
There lurks a still and dumb-discoursive devil
My dearest love,
About some gossips for your highness.
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
all foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? was ever
He's married.
'Twere good you do so much for charity.
Run, go, help, help! O Henry, ope thine eyes!
You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
The sides o' the world, against all colour here
what I am: I must be sad when I have cause and smile
As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
I'll draw it as apparent to the crown,
Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some
Ay, madam;
And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers.
Exit
Too bitter is thy jest.
That never relish'd of a base descent.
He'll be as full of quarrel and offence
By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
him from the pridge.
And, whilst thou lay'st in thy unhallow'd dam,
That we may bring you something on the way.
For love of Edward's offspring in my womb:
SCENE I. Verona. An open place.
Hubert, I think?
Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
And kiss'd her lips with such a clamorous smack
And fly with me to Cressid!
Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell:
Against the Romans with Cassibelan,
I'll to the Centaur, to go seek this slave:
Thou that wast seal'd in thy nativity
Is piled upon his faith and will continue
you something to know it.
And cheer his grace with quick and merry words.
So do the kings of France unto this day;
Like a strange soul upon the Stygian banks
drudge, or diviner, laid claim to me, call'd me
Report thy parentage. I think thou said'st
To some more fitter place, and that with speed.
Dies in the zeal of that which it presents:
The Dauphin, with one Joan la Pucelle join'd,
footing than blind reason stumbling without fear: to
From a pound to a pin? fold it over and over,
And doctors learn'd: first I began in private
Do like the mutines of Jerusalem,
Aside to ARIEL
I'll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still,
Would draw heaven down, and all the gods, to hearken:
No point, quoth I; my servant straight was mute.
You shall hear more ere morning.
To rob me of so rich a bottom here.
And mark what way I make: come, good my lord.
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, RIVERS, and GREY
Be bride to you, if you this assurance;
Thy words are but as thoughts; therefore, be bold.
As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he
Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,
A good old commander and a most kind gentleman: I
Lay forth the gown.
There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten
Thou canst not do a thing in the world so soon,
But with proviso and exception,
Sorry I am to hear what I have heard:
The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning!
He calls us back: my pride fell with my fortunes;
As amply and unnecessarily
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way.
O fair affliction, peace!
native garb, he could not therefore handle an
As might have drawn one to a longer voyage,
If ever love had interest in his liver,
As well descended as thyself; and hath
Who's there? my woman Helen?
Ride more than thou goest,
With tomboys hired with that self-exhibition
Where is thy lady? In a word; or else
My boon is, that this gentleman may render
Ay, my lord, an't please you.
As if he had but proved an argument.
Or will you blame and lay the fault on me?
News from Verona!--How now, Balthasar!
You show too much of that
We must be brief when traitors brave the field.
Enter ANTONIO and Officers
these robes are not gentlemen born: give me the
Exit
He is no crescent, and his horns are
You'ld call your children yours.
Most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time
Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
The diamonds of a most praised water
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
I shall report,
My husband and my lord, my lord and husband;
You know him not, sir.
Observe how Antony becomes his flaw,
I'll never care what wickedness I do,
I prithee, do not hold me to mine oath;
With very much content, my lord; and I wish it
Welcome, good Messala.
'Tis better as it is.
Jack Rugby, he is dead already, if he be come.
To lock such rascal counters from his friends,
Well, Suffolk, thou shalt not see me blush
It was two ere I left him, and now the clock
One friend to take his fortune by the arm,
This is practise, Gloucester:
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
How? what?
For many so arrive at second masters,
And, I beseech you, hear me, who profess
Murder'd sweet Tully; Brutus' bastard hand
Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see
Re-enter DENNY, with CRANMER
I have said too much unto a heart of stone
reason: thou seest I am pacified still. Nay,
It cannot be thus long, the sides of nature
penitent, as thou callest him, and reconciled king,
Than camels in the war, who have their provand
Were I alone to pass the difficulties
Exeunt Citizens
Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?
He is a better scholar than I thought he was.
A halter, soldiers! hang him on this tree.
We have been down together in my sleep,
As Socrates' Xanthippe, or a worse,
A thousand thanks, and pray 'em take their pleasures.
Have in these parts from morn till even fought
By which the world's best garden be achieved,
no boast of it; and for your writing and reading,
And saving those that eye thee!
That's not the tune.
Knowing aforehand of our merriment,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
you, throw none away; the skin is good for your
You have heard of my poor services, i' the love
But, mother, I am not sir Robert's son;
I'll devise thee brave punishments for him.
Our fortune on the sea is out of breath,
How merited to be so; since he came,
Who is Silvia? what is she,
But presently prevent the ways to wail.
Helen, the mother of great Constantine,
therefore he is a traitor.
I am the sister of one Claudio,
A messenger from Henry, our dread liege,
O, what, am I
I say you are not.
that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great wheel
What you have been ere now, and what you are;
I must eat my dinner.
Enter KING RICHARD III
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye:
How green you are and fresh in this old world!
To answer all the debt he owes to you
You would desire the king were made a prelate:
Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.
Your children yet unborn and unbegot,
is herself in the tub.
Upon your never-withering banks of flowers:
Let me have open means to come to them,
Were you in doubt, sir, that you asked her?
O night, which ever art when day is not!
Then lays his finger on his temple, straight
Exit
A messenger with letters from the doctor,
For none abides with me: my joy is death;
Cry the amen; and yet my conscience says
Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon.
Come, my Hippolyta: what cheer, my love?
But fear the sword like me, he'll scarcely look on't.
Nay, I'll give my word for her too: our kindred,
Gazes on her
So call the field to rest; and let's away,
The sweetest sleep, and fairest-boding dreams
Exeunt
Go to; I say you shall.
All to the senate-house: some news is come
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
Long die thy happy days before thy death;
The worser that you give me the addition
that sighs for thee. Remember who commended thy
of Irish wolves against the moon.
With drooping fog as black as Acheron,
Exeunt
That England, being empty of defence,
If not, my senses, better pleased with madness,
Past all expressing. It is very meet
We do, my lord.
Within the belt of rule.
And those that leave their valiant bones in France,
In underprizing it, so far this shadow
I pray you, give me leave to go from hence;
I like it well: good Grumio, fetch it me.
And then is heard no more: it is a tale
In the same pulpit whereto I am going,
Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing:--O, there
Have aught committed that is hardly borne
come to such penury?
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Arm, arm, you heavens, against these perjured kings!
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
Do thou entreat her show a woman pity.
never a worthier man.
I never heard a passion so confused,
Being the bosom lover of my lord,
A silly answer and fitting well a sheep.
But come, my lord, let us away.
Why then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano;
I am invited, sir, to certain merchants,
Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.
Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
From Cupid's shoulder pluck his painted wings
In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
I had rather have one scratch my head i' the sun
In part for his sake moved.
What mean you, sir,
Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread;
Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England
Little have you to say
Kissing her
With swifter spleen than powder can enforce,
In the end of autumn turned to the rams,
I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;
This was her first remembrance from the Moor:
Dispersed are the glories it included.
That shall reverberate all as loud as thine;
More of this matter cannot I report:
Lorenzo and Salerio, welcome hither;
them, I will describe them; and, according to my
A king, perhaps, perhaps,--
Bar his access to the king, never attempt
For being ignorant to whom it goes
No matter whither, so you come not here.
What, art thou devout? wast thou in prayer?
Too hard an exclamation.
Hideth my heart. So, let me hear you speak.
Daughter, well met.
How now, good woman? how dost thou?
Came from the north and thus it did import:
Upon the rack, Bassanio! then confess
Well, I will lock his counsel in my breast;
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
I do not strain at the position,--
Sirrah, a word with you: attend those men
Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.
strappado, or all the racks in the world, I would
Exit
And give him chastisement for this abuse.
Yes, indeed: thou wouldst make a good fool.
That ever penury, in contempt of man,
Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than that?
Why, then, I care not for thee.
Most learned judge! A sentence! Come, prepare!
I love your son.
Approach, thou beacon to this under globe,
Yet I will favour thee in what I can.
life! I want work.' 'O my sweet Harry,' says she,
Twice treble shame on Angelo,
comest to thy father: if thou love me, practise an answer.
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Be free and healthful,--so tart a favour
Strike all that look upon with marvel. Come,
Did softly press the rushes, ere he waken'd
SCENE III. A street near the Capitol.
For I have none: let no man speak again
To have it of my trust or for my sake.
Heaven knows, not I;
I'll now taste of thy drug.
Then let it lie for those that it concerns.
I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself.
Thy palm some moment keeps; but now mine eyes,
I put you o'er to heaven and to my mother:
Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing.
good, sir, to rise and be put to death.
For you or any: how far I have proceeded,
Would Desdemona seriously incline:
A living drollery. Now I will believe
And not all love to see you, though so much
Ay, when? can'st tell? Lend me thy lantern, quoth
How now! what means this passion at his name?
To have his pomp and all what state compounds
To whom expressly I bring greeting too.
Not to affect many proposed matches
Were I a common laugher, or did use
What! this gentleman will out-talk us all.
My credit now stands on such slippery ground,
There lies the substance: and I thank thee, king,
Ch'ill pick your teeth, zir: come; no matter vor
By my troth, I'll tell thee, I am almost sick for
As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us
But slow in speech, yet sweet as spring-time flowers:
Lessen'd herself, and in the beams o' the sun
Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones,
poor duke's officers; but truly, for mine own part,
The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy
Was round encompassed and set upon.
Exit
That shall you know hereafter.
Exeunt
Ay, so we will.
My father and my grandfather were kings,
Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends
And time it is, when raging war is done,
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
Our puissance into the hand of God,
Put your main cause into the king's protection;
Frederick the great soldier who miscarried at sea?
Look ye draw home enough, and 'tis there straight.
Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
Exit REYNALDO
[Within]                 Come I too late?
Or swell the curled water 'bove the main,
Exeunt in manner as they entered
He smiled at it: I told him you were coming:
What kind of man he is.
He'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day:
And not a man, for being simply man,
No sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,
Enter PRIAM, HECTOR, TROILUS, PARIS, and HELENUS
The Duke of Suffolk is the first, and claims
With clouts about their heads.
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
Then know that I, one Snug the joiner, am
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
but I'll bridle it: he shall die, an it be but for
He hath not told his thought to the king?
O my lord!
Which to this hour bewail the injury,
Take thy lute, wench: my soul grows sad with troubles;
As art and practise hath enriched any
Why cloud they not their sights perpetually,
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,
Nay, my troth, I know not: but I know, to be up
Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief,
If quiet life be best; sweeter to you
God bless you, sir.
Not met us on the way.
God rest you merry, sir.
There's hope in't yet.
After his death, of all he dies possess'd of.
but ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled than
Just as high as my heart.
And, as I am a gentleman, I credit him.
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot;
To Saturn, Caius, not to Saturnine;
My gracious lord,--
Here, madam, at your service.
Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day;
themselves all men of hair, they call themselves
fingers goes not with me.
A moth of peace, and he go to the war,
Madam, I heard her speak; she is low-voiced.
spectators, the dish pays the shot.
Exeunt
And then I'll bring thee to the present business
Enter MACMORRIS and Captain JAMY
But with advice and silent secrecy.
Most like;
The Constable of France.
too disputable for my company: I think of as many
A drop of water in the breaking gulf,
half, for easing me of the carriage.
O that I were a mockery king of snow,
grows melancholy?
The door is open, sir; there lies your way;
Or is he but retired to make him strong?
So would not I, for your own sake; for I have many
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
But doth he know that I am in this forest and in
question her. God save you, pilgrim! whither are you bound?
My fellow-scholars, and to keep those statutes
Into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit
The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother's
Enter, PERICLES and SIMONIDES at one door, with  Attendants; a Messenger meets them, kneels, and  gives PERICLES a letter: PERICLES shows it  SIMONIDES; the Lords kneel to him. Then enter  THAISA with child, with LYCHORIDA a nurse. The  KING shows her the letter; she rejoices: she and  PERICLES takes leave of her father, and depart with  LYCHORIDA and their Attendants. Then exeunt SIMONIDES and the rest
For the Dauphin,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
Does whet his anger to him.
She loved them most.
SCENE I. Britain. A hall in Cymbeline's palace.
So is theirs and ours.
I hope he be in love.
I will see you hanged, like clotpoles, ere I come
'Hic steterat,' and that Lucentio that comes
Your lady, sir, your lady: and her sister
You have broke it, cousin: and, by my life, you
And the third hour of drowsy morning name.
Lead us from hence, where we may leisurely
Corruption wins not more than honesty.
Natures of such deep trust we shall much need;
beard is more than a youth, and he that hath no
Subdued the Saxons, and did seat the French
shall pride carry it?
Be gentle grave unto me! rather on Nilus' mud
If I do feign, you witnesses above
Speak; I am bound to hear.
This lady makes him to me.
wonder at Angelo. How will you do to content this
That by direct or indirect attempts
You, mistress, all this coil is 'long of you:
Assure thyself my love is buried.
I know 'twill stir him strongly; yet I know
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
It mourns that painting and usurping hair
Run to the Capitol, and nothing else?
Good even, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thy
And fightest with the sword of Deborah.
To part so slightly with your wife's first gift:
Clarence comes.
I dare say you love him not so ill, to wish him here
That has to-day escaped. I thank you all;
The good gods me presently,
Exit
Let me say no, my liege, an if you please:
You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
We are for you: sit i' the middle.
That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
Chief master-gunner am I of this town;
Who being accused a crafty murderer,
Most mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin:
The maid is fair, o' the youngest for a bride,
Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going;
When I shall pray, 'O bless my lord and husband!'
Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound
Why, how now! what does Master Fenton here?
How now, cousin Hero!
It was, so please your highness.
Intending deep suspicion: ghastly looks
And Henry is my king, Warwick his subject.
Well; what has he done?
I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
He shall enlarge him: fetch Malvolio hither:
We will not meddle with him till he come; for his
Exeunt SHALLOW and SIR HUGH EVANS
And heavy-gaited toads lie in their way,
weather continuing, this mystery remained
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
Why, she hath not writ to me?
A fasting tiger safer by the tooth,
Return him here again. Go with him, provost.
Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs,
I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,
Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art
What danger or what sorrow can befall thee,
To every article.
Well, I'll end the song. Sirs, cover the while; the
this that so seriously he does address himself unto?
These people at our back.
Whom I made lord of me and all I had,
Come hither.
have thought this? See the hell of having a false
How! let me see:
Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
keep so good a house. Many a time and often I ha'
If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
What Cressid is, what Pandar, and what we?
And, when it bows, stands up. Thou art left, Marcius:
I will fashion to fall out between twelve and one,
Therefore be gone; solicit me no more.
Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts
They talk apart
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Renowned duke, vouchsafe to take the pains
extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage.
A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
Falstaff!--Fast asleep behind the arras, and
Away, and let me die.
Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep.
do not like the fashion of your garments: you will
Out!
I see your brows are full of discontent,
Poison and treason are the hands of sin,
And if I have a co nscience, let it sink me,
Not Priamus and Hecuba on knees,
To call his fortunes thine.
is to look into happiness through another man's
A prince's courage. Away, I prithee.
That's Christian care enough: for living murmurers
SCENE V. Paris. The KING's palace.
I have offended reputation,
summered and warm kept, are like flies at
To plead your cause: it shall be therefore bootless
As you have done; that's what I can; induced
Farewell, my dearest sister, fare thee well:
There died this morning of a cruel fever
So runs the world away.
No, no; 'tis all men's office to speak patience
I with the morning's love have oft made sport,
Continue in my liking? nay, gave notice
Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is,
Though in this place most master wear no breeches,
Out of his lunacies.
Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home?
Command into obedience: fear and niceness--
Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend
Have I had children's voices?
Burthen Ding-dong
head: what matter have you against me?
Choose thou thy husband, and I'll pay thy dower;
Anon, anon!
The moon shines bright: in such a night as this,
Lady, amen.
And, like a thief, to come to rob my grounds,
As may beseem a monarch like himself.
I Know her women are about her: what
translated.
Was 'Antony! most noble Antony!'
me die, for I have lived long enough: this is the
And then to horse immediately.
The Moor is of a free and open nature,
Now my sworn friend and then mine enemy,
I tell you? Sir Toby, my lady prays you to have a
Well; what further?
steeple, bells, and all.
fire, being burnt i' the hand for stealing of sheep.
Say no more:
hear me speak but this.
With falsehood, cowardice and poor descent,
Whilst ours was blurted at and held a malkin
SCENE III. The temple of Diana at Ephesus; THAISA standing
Can ransom me into his love again,
Yet your good will
Praising her when I am dumb.
If it be aught to the old tune, my lord,
[To DORSET]
That should consume it, I have not the face
Hop as light as bird from brier;
Is the argument of Time. Of this allow,
The least of which haunting a nobleman
Hath it been owed and worn. This is his wife;
To what may be digested in a play.
Which are to France the spies and speculations
Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
I had a Rutland too, thou holp'st to kill him.
A shepherd's daughter,
Should from encounter guard. Could I find out
Note me this, good friend;
The sixth was Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester;
Calpurnia's cheek is pale; and Cicero
On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
What had he done, to make him fly the land?
And keep it safe for our remembrance:
We must of force dispense with this decree;
As on a pillory, looking through the lute;
I fear I wrong the honourable men
But end it by some means for Imogen.
called me brother; and then the two kings called my
But go thy ways; go, give that changing piece
And what's her history?
For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
Cargo, cargo, cargo, villiando par corbo, cargo.
To him that is most true. To Milford go,
And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
Prospero my lord shall know what I have done:
With you, my Lord of Lincoln; you remember
For now the wind begins to blow;
and, for mine own part, I have not a case of lives:
At mine unworthiness that dare not offer
Hum--conspiracy!--'Sleep till I waked him,--you
Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words
And call us wretches, orphans, castaways
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts,
But that the sea, mounting to the welkin's cheek,
Since all the power thereof it doth apply
Yet I wish, sir,--
Being native burghers of this desert city,
I mean, my lords, those powers that the queen
Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
avouches the shepherd's son; who has not only his
Love and languish for his sake:
This is the strangest fellow, brother John.
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult?
Re-enter MENENIUS, with BRUTUS and SICINIUS
[Aside to ANTONIO]  I say, to-night: no more.
And duty bids defend; the other again
that is a prisoner nine years old.
O, ay: stalk on. stalk on; the fowl sits. I did
O Lord, sir, it were pity you should get your living
Enter LONGAVILLE, with a paper
Stabs RODERIGO
and by east from the west corner of thy curious-
ANTONY comes down
For I perceive I am thy prisoner.
Marry, she says your dog was a cur, and tells you
Good boy, tell him I come.
Extemporally will stage us, and present
Have we not lost most part of all the towns,
Many dream not to find, neither deserve,
But there's more in me than thou understand'st.
Enter OLIVIA and Priest
Being, as it is, much spoke of.
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
That is the cause we trouble you so early;
In other arms than hers,--to him this challenge.
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
Most like a gentleman.
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
And thou by some incensed god sent hither
Why tender'st thou that paper to me, with
Edward and York; then haply she will weep:
A speedier course than lingering languishment
A king of shreds and patches,--
let thy tongue tang with arguments of state; put
Patricians and plebeians, we create
See him deliver'd, Fabian; bring him hither.
Re-enter LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS and MUTIUS, with their swords bloody
So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd;
To bear her burthen, whether I will or no,
Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night:
And think it no addition, nor my wish,
I'll to thy closet; and go read with thee
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
Did look no better to that weighty charge.
Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness.
gown; having come from a day-bed, where I have left
Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.
Which my lord paid for, be of any power
Reach me thy hand, that I may help thee out;
A man well known throughout all Italy.
And all my mother came into mine eyes
That you shall be new-christen'd in the Tower.
Which touching but my gentle vessel's side,
Here comes another of the tribe: a third cannot be
Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant: say you
Let me pass quietly:
The harm of unscann'd swiftness, will too late
Or that the negligence may well be laugh'd at,
You need not fear it, sir:
Upon his Irish expedition;
Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare;
That were impossible: but, I pray you both,
The lord protector lost it, and not I:
All blest secrets,
Why then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
And make him weigh with her.
thy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love,
If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,
A mighty and a fearful head they are,
And minister in their steads! to general filths
But O, thy wife!
Allow'd with absolute power and thy good name
There is more difference between thy flesh and hers
Unfurnish'd of her well-beseeming troop?
'Frets, call you these?' quoth she; 'I'll fume
To speak of peace or war.
ACT II
I know not where to turn: O, welcome home:
Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
And that my fortune rubs against the bias.
Found out the remedy. How would you be,
If I had lost it,
Trumpets within
Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
bate thee a scruple.
Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
of the prince's subjects.
Provost, a word with you!
They are the issue of your loins, my liege,
SCENE I. London. An ante-chamber in the KING'S palace.
For you shall sup with Jesu Christ to-night.
Whom you have banish'd, does exceed you all.
His skill in the construction.
Mirth cannot move a soul in agony.
If they had swallow'd poison, 'twould appear
Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee
To make a bondmaid and a slave of me;
SCENE III. The forest.
father; who may haply be a little angry for my so
O lamentable day!
How and which way I may bestow myself
There did he pause: but let me tell the world,
Not half so old as that. I'll write against them,
Your pleasure, sir?
I tender so the safety of my liege.
She's not fourteen.
Here a' comes; and the Scots captain, Captain Jamy, with him.
Sings
But thou shalt have; and creep time ne'er so slow,
Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
SONG
That no man is the lord of any thing,
But hope to pluck a dainty doe to ground.
Exit
For me?
To whom, my lord?
The good King Simonides, do you call him.
it: but, first, how the poor souls roared, and the
for running!
Like a poor beggar, raileth on the rich.
A parcel of their fortunes; and things outward
So, so: farewell; we are gone.
most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisby.
on the highway: beating and hanging are terrors to
Hath she forsook so many noble matches,
For, if I should as lion come in strife
Edward the Fourth, by the grace of God, king of
But you are more intemperate in your blood
That e'er I watch'd and the most heaviest.
Nay, come your ways:
How now, sweet Frank! why art thou melancholy?
To have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth;
I am their mother; who should keep me from them?
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Which accidentally are met together.
Brother, the king hath made your nephew mad.
But with her most vile principal, that she's
That is, because the traitor murderer lives.
Go to:
ANTIPHOLUS
There is one goat for you.
I am to break with thee of some affairs
To lop that doubt, he'll fill this land with arms,
And I his clerk; therefore be well advised
Exit
More than my shanks and wrists: you good gods, give me
To a strong mast that lived upon the sea;
He may enguard his dotage with their powers,
standing pool; who is whipped from tithing to
Methinks already in this civil broil
My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne
But were our witty empress well afoot,
To VIOLA
Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I
For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane,
dog--Oh! the dog is me, and I am myself; ay, so,
Your trusty and most valiant servitor,
Silence; no more: go closely in with me:
[Aside]  I scarce know how.
indifferent red; item, two grey eyes, with lids to
hey-day, freedom!
Or durst not, for his craven heart, say thus.
O, yes, into a thousand similes.
happily effected.
Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes?
Reviving blood, and that great men shall press
No, my lord.
As that which makes it.
If this might be a brother.
From the two parties, forsooth.
Who art the table wherein all my thoughts
Enter POLONIUS
my learning.
So much unsettled: this drives me to entreat you
Hymen hath brought the bride to bed.
No, no; O Lord, sir, no.
Hath newly pass'd between this youth and me.
To bar your highness claiming from the female,
command; I have turned away my other guests: they
Can be at once, shall step by step attend
So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
If you apply yourself to our intents,
Once for thy spritely comfort, and ten-fold
Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells,
And I resign my gage. My dear dear lord,
But, as it were, in sort or limitation,
d'Angleterre, Heritier de France; and thus in
Come to me at your convenient leisure, and you shall
Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that?
Of bell and burial.
I'll fetch the general's surgeon.
An if I have not, sir, I hope you have;
Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril;
When I have chased all thy foes from hence,
Exeunt PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
man's voice.
Your ships are stay'd at Venice, and the duke,
I do believe thee:
Ere now denied the asker? and now again
Enough to purchase what you have made known.
Yet, by reputing of his high descent,
As pure as sin with baptism.
For any foreign preparation
Then how or which way should they first break in?
Away! away!
know not myself, he would never have boarded me in this fury.
furnished. They were young and handsome, and of the
The marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe,
turned into a maid; for they are all girdled with
I had forgot myself; am I not king?
Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted
Mine honourable mistress.
I pray ye, greet them fairly.
How now, thou core of envy!
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
With drinking healths to my niece: I'll drink to
Of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, king
Their bloody sign of battle is hung out,
As I have read, laid claim unto the crown;
I would outstare the sternest eyes that look,
O, here he is: lay hand upon him. Sir,
What brings you here to court so hastily?
judgments in whosoever, and a proper man of person.
Our certain death: therefore it is decreed
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
Sings
To win the king as I am bold her honour
Dictynna, goodman Dull; Dictynna, goodman Dull.
Three days before: but this from rumour's tongue
Cost him his eyes.
And hearing your high majesty is touch'd
This Jacob from our holy Abram was,
I think, but dare not speak.
Who when they were in health, I tell thee, herald,
enfreedoming thy person; thou wert immured,
Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you:
Camillo, this great sir will yet stay longer.
All's hush'd as midnight yet.
The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger:
Ay, all of them at Bristol lost their heads.
Sir, this I hear; the king is come to his daughter,
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish
Belike she thinks that Proteus hath forsook her.
Before this ancient sir, who, it should seem,
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
You speak not like yourself; who ever yet
for a commodity of brown paper and old ginger,
child. We have seen the best of our time:
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her;
My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
Will kneel to him with thanks.
From slaves that apes would beat! Pluto and hell!
More hath it merited; that let it have.
flattery, not out of my promise.
My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince,
Saunder Simpcox, an if it please you, master.
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
Sings
SCENE II. A room of state in the same.
Pins and poking-sticks of steel,
Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural
That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
Most of the rest slaughter'd or took likewise.
eyes; and then they will endure handling, which
I do believe the swearer. What with me?
Do; cuff him soundly, but never draw thy sword.
Into your favour.
Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,
me other than Lord Mortimer.
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
Well, sirs, I am almost out at heels.
For fear of swallowing; but with nimble wing
There's for thyself, and that's for Tamora.
Come, madam, and come, Richard, we must speed
And thou a prince, protector of this land,
Whose messengers are here about my side,
Enter DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and BALTHASAR
Exit
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
The sun will not be seen to-day;
commendations to you too: and let me tell you in
Let all my land be sold.
Lest men should say 'Look, where three-farthings goes!'
Then take him up and manage well the jest:
But I have that within which passeth show;
O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
My lord of Gloucester, 'tis my special hope
To Italy; and there at Venice gave
And of the loyal service of his son,
I know you not.
Where I espied the panther fast asleep.
But, say, it is my humour: is it answer'd?
Had I a steward
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
Which shall be shortly, single I'll resolve you,
O, well did he become that lion's robe
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA
To tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk,
Yes, Caliban her son.
SCENE IV. A British prison.
If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
have beaten thee, but in that thou art like to be my
So thou mayst say, the king lies by a beggar, if a
Edward and Clarence. O, what cause have I,
Your pardon, noble mistress!
The offer of this time, I cannot promise
For peace itself should not so dull a kingdom,
Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and
Been well inform'd of them; and with such cautions,
Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
Valentine!
shepherd for food follows not the sheep: thou for
Had never like executor. I forget:
The valiant never taste of death but once.
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
Yearly three thousand pounds, which by thee lately
spirits and fires!
Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;
Tell me, Panthino, what sad talk was that
This is as't should be. Let me see the county;
The ring was never hers.
willingly, despise profit where you have most gain.
In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
What woman in the city do I name,
O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony!
What is this? sport?
made a little fault in 'Great.'
My heart to her but as guest-wise sojourn'd,
That give heaven countless eyes to view men's acts,
With pity, that doth make me sick. A lady
All purity, all trial, all observance;
Elected him our absence to supply,
But tell me whom thou seek'st.
To camp this host, we all would sup together,
disease our better mirth.
I'll over then to England with this news,
Well, well, come on: who else?
With a reed voice, and turn two mincing steps
Here! what should he do here?
Well, what then?
Strikes him down
A gross fat man.
His leather skin and horns to wear.
But words are words; I never yet did hear
A wife of such wood were felicity.
Incapable and shallow innocents,
out of brothels, thy hand out of plackets, thy pen
Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk.
But is there any else longs to see this broken music
Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell?
Even with the having: it is not so with thee.
Without control, listed to make his prey.
I cannot find it; 'tis not in the bond.
I never gave them condign punishment:
Welcome, ladies, Welcome!
Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones;
How she came placed here in the temple;
For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
mighty, rotting
In Orsino's bosom.
Didst thou dream, Lucius, that thou so criedst out?
That unicorns may be betray'd with trees,
Of egal justice, used in such contempt?
Upon the enraged soldiers in their spoil
yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of
More sharper than your swords, hie to the field:
If this fond Love were not a blinded god?
SCENE V. Pomfret castle.
You have made fair work!
Exit BARDOLPH
Good aunt, you wept not for our father's death;
Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods
You know, none so well, none so well as you, of my
Ay, ay, prithee now. By my troth, sweet lord, thou
Speak it again, and, even with the word,
O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more:
I'll strike, and cry 'Take all.'
To be so moral when he shall endure
Fall on thy head! Farewell, my lord;
In every good thing.
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
And, as the jest did glance away from me,
Or any one of you, chop off your hand,
[Aside]                Come what come may,
How shall that faith return again to earth,
you, is digt himself four yard under the
Must all determine here?
Make room, and let him stand before our face.
policy, that mongrel cur, Ajax, against that dog of
with no more advantage than the opportunity of a
Eternity was in our lips and eyes,
A deed of dreadful note.
What means this scene of rude impatience?
O Clitus!
[Aside]  Peace! stir not.
sir in. Very good; well kissed! an excellent
As we this garden! We at time of year
Of either, madam.
Can we set eye on; but in all safe reason
Come, come, we'll prompt you.
Not he, I hope.
A prince most prudent, of an excellent
Which made me think a man a worm: my son
Whispers a Lord, who goes off in the barge of LYSIMACHUS
I do confess the vices of my blood,
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
The least of all these signs were probable.
To load thy merit richly. Call my women:
Where yet she never was.
Exeunt BIANCA and Servant
I prithee, speak to me as to thy thinkings,
If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear
hath great care to please his wife.
Enter an old Widow of Florence, DIANA, VIOLENTA, and MARIANA, with other Citizens
Who all this while hath revell'd in the night
And what is written shall be executed.
Enter JULIET and Nurse
Peace to your highness!
look you, of my mind, as touching the direction of
That which cries 'Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
As far as land will let me, by your side.
That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir,
Than to die well and not my master's debtor.
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
you and dote upon the exchange.
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe:
And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye,
Return you thither?
A nest of traitors!
And fearing he would rise, he was so virtuous,
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe:
What page's suit she hath in readiness.
Offend you in my life; never loved Cassio
Now, pray thee, come;
And ban thine enemies, both mine and thine!
Say I love Brutus, and I honour him;
As one that surfeits thinking on a want.
How fares the king and's followers?
The archbishop.
In three our kingdom: and 'tis our fast intent
Shall not be wink'd at, how shall we stretch our eye
Alas, what danger will it be to us,
Show thee a jay's nest and instruct thee how
And manners, to intrude where I am graced;
I am all the daughters of my father's house,
Exit
Last night the very gods show'd me a vision--
And Edward Duke of Bar: of lusty earls,
methinks there would be no period to the jest,
And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
Believe me, noble lord,
lead this life long, I'll sew nether stocks and mend
In murders and in outrage, boldly here;
Master, I am here entered in bond for you.
Live elves and fairies in a ring,
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
woman, the modest wife, the virtuous creature, that
This token serveth for a flag of truce
Thereby to see the minutes how they run,
Committing me unto my brother's love;
Exit
May give you thankful sacrifice.
Exit
soul, i' faith, sir; by my troth he is, as ever
These hands are not more like.
We will make fast within a hallow'd verge.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before, CLAUDIO, and Provost
All the whole time
Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?
them; item, one neck, one chin, and so forth. Were
To have them in safe stowage: may it please you
The brightest heaven of invention,
For aught I know, my lord, they do.
Exit THALIARD
Make your full reference freely to my lord,
In music, instruments and poetry,
Buy thou a rope and bring it home to me.
A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak.
could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks,
Moral! no, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I
Like rats, oft bite the holy cords a-twain
O Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief
that your senses, unintelligent of our insufficience,
Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
What, with worms and flies?
In what manner?
But even this night, whose black contagious breath
Dies. FLEANCE escapes
Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood,
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
As benefits to thee, for I will fight
He wonder'd that your lordship
So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear.
And so am I; my name is Walter Whitmore.
Cry out 'Olivia!' O, You should not rest
Why, will shall break it; will and nothing else.
He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
How much her grace is alter'd on the sudden?
I shall be, if I claim by open war.
And that's but unwholesome food they say.
Yorkshire.
Extremity of griefs would make men mad;
Why would you be so fond to overcome
Son, list to this conjunction, make this match;
Thy daughter shall be wedded to my king;
Now I behold thy lively body so?
To plead mine innocence; for that dye is on me
Then, what it was that next came in her eye,
My heart
'Tis much deep: and it should seem by the sun,
As jewels purchased at an easy price;
Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder,
Our very loving sister, well be-met.
Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when
Myself have spoke in vain.
How canst thou urge God's dreadful law to us,
Now let us on, my lords, and join our powers,
My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw.
If fortune brag of two she loved and hated,
That thou mayst be a queen, and cheque the world!
Your wisdom is consumed in confidence.
I crave no other, nor no better man.
Alas! good Kate, I will not burden thee;
That sets us all at odds: I'll not endure it:
What place? what time? what form? what likelihood?
And given me notice of their villanies.
Was Cassius born. Give me thy hand, Messala:
Sing all a green willow:
I have slept, my lord, already.
To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words;
Well; I will take him, then torture my wife, pluck
The shrinking slaves of winter.
In your fair minds let this acceptance take.
Enter OSRIC
again, entreat him;
Away, I say! stay'st thou to vex me here?
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO, at a distance
By all conjectures: first, Kildare's attainder,
Denied my house for his, me for his wife.
in paying it, it is impossible I should live, all
and require her to solicit your master's desires to
Have there injointed them with an after fleet.
And duly waited for my coming forth?
What is it, my good friends?
Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good,
I know I am too mean to be your queen,
Sennet sounded. Enter MACBETH, as king, LADY  MACBETH, as queen, LENNOX, ROSS, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants
So, get thee gone; good night Ate eyes do itch;
But speak all good you can devise of Caesar,
At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues
I know you are more clement than vile men,
That could not live asunder day or night.
Enter YORK
Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life!
Exit MARIA
The strongest nerves and small inferior veins
speak no more of him; you'll be whipped for taxation
Which may, if fortune please, both breed thee, pretty,
To-morrow you set on.
It was my hint to speak,--such was the process;
At nine i' the morning here we'll meet again.
Now will I hence about thy business,
Ask God for temperance; that's the appliance only
O, contain yourself
And let his knights have colder looks among you;
Whence are you, sir? what may I call your name?
I will disparage her no farther till you are my
For too much loving you.
I am amazed with matter.
O heavens! 'be true' again!
I would, not so!--and would no more endure
When I was born:
All hail, my sovereign liege!
To shallow rivers, to whose falls
Where bloody murder or detested rape
But none of us cared for Kate;
Which in their summer beauty kiss'd each other.
There to be crowned Richard's royal queen.
Music, whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself
Where most it promises, and oft it hits
Your hazard shall be made.
Trojan!--now the sleeve, now the sleeve!
To GONERIL
gaols and let out the prisoners.
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
Enter PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
Go, sickness as thou art!
She falls upon her bed, within the curtains
So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile;
Where is this rash and most unfortunate man?
So happy is your brother.
I love no colours, and without all colour
To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
SCENE II. LEONATO'S garden.
Neither supreme, how soon confusion
The melancholy Jaques grieves at that,
A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
I prithee, noble friend, home to thy house;
I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
What warlike noise is this?
SCENE I. A sea-port in Sicilia.
Because this is in traffic of a king.
not Orlando.
To be full quit of those my banishers,
Still Music
I say, a husband.
Wears yet thy silver livery. She at Tarsus
What shall King Henry be a pupil still
Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly,
carried away all that was in the king's tent;
Fair sir, God save you! Where's the princess?
Alcibiades is banished: hear you of it?
Music
The malice towards you to forgive you: live,
The which if He be pleased I shall perform,
rapier, as I may, in fair terms: if you would walk
Believe it, sir, I have seen him in Britain: he was
Burns under feigned ashes of forged love
What's he comes here?
Pray, do my service to his majesty:
He's right noble:
Thy mother gave thee when thou suck'dst her breast,
You make more rich to owe?
Let's teach ourselves that honourable stop,
O Ned, sweet Ned! speak to thy mother, boy!
ACT V
fain be about the ears of the English.
And I'll go seek the duke: his banquet is prepared.
I know you by the waggling of your head.
In good time, sir; what's that?
Ay, but not frighted me; therefore I'll sleep again.
And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
You are afraid, and therein the wiser. If you buy
And then he drew a dial from his poke,
As dice are to be wish'd by one that fixes
And so shall you,
Finger of birth-strangled babe
away the performance: therefore, much drink
Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou
Of what I have begun.
have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you
be not Jack Falstaff, then am I a Jack. There is Percy:
Her life is only safest in her birth.
Heaven doth truly know it.
Hitting a grosser quality, is cried up
Who to Philippi here consorted us:
But custom what they did begin
As much as I deserve! Why, that's the lady:
Rich scarf to my proud earth; why hath thy queen
If I had given you this at over-night,
And many of the consuls, raised and met,
Who's that which rings the bell?--Diablo, ho!
Have a command to tend you?
That not a horse is half the half of himself.
Above yon busky hill! the day looks pale
There is no woe to his correction,
As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold.
RICHARD
There's in him stuff that puts him to these ends;
So speaking as I think, I die, I die.
Rough-hew them how we will,--
man and his son aboard the prince: told him I heard
The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,
Give grandam kingdom, and it grandam will
but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble
With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks,
Lo, how hollow the fiend speaks within him! did not
Come your way, sir. 'Bless you, good father friar.
Full well I wot the ground of all this grudge:
And thy abundant goodness shall excuse
his servant; for they purpose not their death, when
down by lawful counsel, and straight away for
But I do not desire he should answer for me; and
And yet I know not how conceit may rob
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:
Make such unquiet, that the ship
winds. The heavens continue their loves!
I be not found a talker.
Of outward order: this we came not to,
Are counsellors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
These are his substance, sinews, arms and strength,
And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.
Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb
plague upon such backing! give me them that will
ACT II
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
What is Dictynna?
Interest of territory, cares of state,--
O foul revolt of French inconstancy!
As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.
On: those that think it is unlawful business
I'll set thee free for this.
Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
And joint'st with them will be thy slaughtermen.
sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half
And have an hour of hearing; and, by'r lady,
'Tis our mad sister, I do know her voice.
How swift his ship.
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
Hark, Tranio! thou may'st hear Minerva speak.
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
her wax must melt.
The chopping French we do not understand.
is love a generation of vipers? Sweet lord, who's
That all the miseries which nature owes
The Moor! I know his trumpet.
Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well
And interjoin their issues. So with me:
Enter a Messenger
To be a public spectacle to all:
The city ports by this hath enter'd and
Invited by your noble self, hath sent
From heaven! alas, sir, I never came there     God
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
Mistrust it not: for, sure, AEacides
Upon the north side of this pleasant chase;
Me well; which is the prescript praise and
Stir not until the signal.
The French fight coldly, and retire themselves.
Witches vanish
Doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.
claret wine this first year of our reign. And now
More that I may call men than you, good friend,
Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and LADY GREY
And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep;
Anticipating time with starting courage.
Exeunt
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
Exit
Enter QUEEN, Ladies, and CORNELIUS
Brutus, bay not me;
war I sent him; from whence he returned, his brows
Romeo, away, be gone!
And sudden push gives them the overthrow.
Unfit for other life, compell'd by hunger
all. I prithee, take the cork out of thy mouth that
Be ready, Claudio, for your death tomorrow.
One word more, one word.
Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
To come again to Carthage.
Shall harm Macbeth.
You are welcome.
Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! stir them
Enter Scout
ACT II
Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill'd.
The effects of sorrow for his valiant sons,
Time is a very bankrupt, and owes more than he's
Cease to persuade, my loving Proteus:
Will you require in present dower with her,
And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed
Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in
Thou speak'st with all thy wit: and yet, i' faith,
Like very sanctity, she did approach
Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
Brother of England, how may we content
will keep the house.
Exposed this paragon to the fearful usage,
Forage in blood of French nobility.
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
Exit
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
Too late, good Diomed: call my guard, I prithee.
Which well appeared in his lineaments,
Why whisper you, my lords, and answer not?
Sir, I would speak with you.
sighed but they asked one another the reason, no
abide the smell of hot meat since. Why do your
An a' be proud with me, I'll pheeze his pride:
renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most
The sun doth gild our armour; up, my lords!
Publicola, and Caelius, are for sea:
He is the only man of Italy.
Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet,
To speak my mind of him: and indeed this day,
You use her well: the world may laugh again;
scarce hold him yonder.
To give him welcome.
Because his painted skin contents the eye?
SCENE V. Another part of the platform.
Lest I might be too rash:
And from a mouth of honour quite cry down
O this learning, what a thing it is!
Winds his horn. Drums strike up: a peal of ordnance. Enter soldiers
politician.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
My love admits no qualifying dross;
make merry withal?
knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of
Write, 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three;
But fare thee well, there is a ducat for thee:
Grace go with you, sir!
Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
Now she is there, how will she specify
That's he indeed.
To their benumbed wills, resist the same,
Though in and of him there be much consisting,
According to our order.
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark
My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see
Were in your love a whip to me; my stay
Run, boy, run, run, and seek him out.
Dies
barbarism, and policy grows into an ill opinion.
Raising up wicked spirits from under ground,
Enter a Messenger
Which must be done by praising me as much
With scoffs and scorns and contumelious taunts.
Exeunt
Bears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn.
How then might your prayers move!
When men were fond, I smiled and wonder'd how.
you, pardon me; he's a justice of peace in his
These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap.
that without any further delay than this very evening.
Lest Hector or my father should perceive me,
Both in his words and meaning: he was never,
I guess not.
When usurers tell their gold i' the field;
Are bound to pray for you both.
When we have here her base and pillar by us.
Exeunt
Our Rome will cast upon thee.
Which makes it five and twenty. Still in motion
And dallies with the innocence of love,
Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
having been supple and courteous to the people,
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
If you can make't apparent
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
Exeunt
Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit
Make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale.
As if he were of note: bring him to the king.
And even since then hath Richard been obscured,
friends no wrong, for I have none to lament me, the
SCENE IV. Antium. Before Aufidius's house.
love of that colour, methinks Samson had small reason
Of the self-same metal that my sister is,
Shed seas of tears and ne'er be satisfied!
Alas, poor Proteus! thou hast entertain'd
That now lies foul and muddy. Not one of them
The motto, 'In hac spe vivo.'
And am right glad he is not standing here
I got them in my country's service, when
So far from sounding and discovery,
A certain stuff, which, being ta'en, would cease
I am commanded here, and kept a coil with
Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well.
And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth:
Enter KENT, disguised
teach me, I will execute, and it shall go hard but I
When better fall, for your avails they fell:
I do beseech you.
With your stiff age: but unto us it is
The rest I'd give to be to you translated.
--odours savours sweet:
That we with smoking swords may march from hence,
Unto my cell.
DON
fellowship in thee, nor thou camest not of the blood
That from my first have been inclined to thrift;
To Mantua, where I hear he makes abode;
Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,
O, thou hast damnable iteration and art indeed able
Alas, what cry is that?
Wait in the presence.
Takes on the point of honour to support
Enter CORIOLANUS, VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, MENENIUS, COMINIUS, with the young Nobility of Rome
I never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue.
You are gentlemen of brave metal; you would lift
To what end? He would make but a sport of it and
Lights, lights, lights!
You see how he intends to use the people.
rarity redeems him.
As I foretold you, were all spirits and
Home to your cottages, forsake this groom:
Even as the waving sedges play with wind.
But then I sigh; and, with a piece of scripture,
DUMB SHOW.
Which aptly sings the good.'
[Aside to DUMAIN]  Loves her by the foot,--
Let that one article rank with the rest;
You're kindly welcome.
To give us warrant from the hand of heaven
And the gods yield you for't!
Is not their climate foggy, raw and dull,
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Reign in this kingdom?
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
Thou know'st already.
I fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl.
I gave you all--
To do myself this wrong: till, at the last,
Than men their minds! 'tis true.
He did confound the best part of an hour
and in such great letters as they write 'Here is
To keep thee from the tempest of the field.
Monsieur the challenger, the princesses call for you.
Forwearied in this action of swift speed,
What's past and what's to come she can descry.
And in that glorious supposition think
The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Tell him the emperor and the empress too
To show yourself your father's son in deed
Hath suffer'd under praise.
What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit?
O lamentable day!
a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath
Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind;
Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the
To buy a slobbery and a dirty farm
In leads or oils? what old or newer torture
If idle talk will once be necessary,
An idiot holds his bauble for a god
That I was nothing.
No rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.
He was not so resolved when last we spake together.
Lend me a garter. So. O, for a chair,
Hard as the palm of ploughman: this thou tell'st me,
He water'd his new plants with dews of flattery,
Indeed my mother! or were you both our mothers,
Night hath been too brief.
Look, my lord, it comes!
Still close as sure.
But that my coat is better than thou know'st
And cherish factions: 'tis inferr'd to us,
A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can
I was beset with shame and courtesy;
And king o'er him and all that he enjoys:
Vouchsafed to think he had partners: you shall find there
Without more mercy, to its own protection
Discredit my authority with yours;
To AGAMEMNON
When I have slain thee with my proper hand,
with him; I'll have an action of battery against
Enter HAMLET, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
How hast thou purchased this experience?
on my back forty eight.
By east and west let France and England mount
the hill; we'll walk afoot awhile, and ease our legs.
Nay then, the wanton lies; my face is black.
None of my lord's ring! why, he sent her none.
And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee.
Through this house each fairy stray.
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.
Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun,
Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain;
How now, noble Pompey! What, at the wheels of
Your grace is welcome to a man disgraced,
By heart and in heart, boy.
A creature unprepared, unmeet for death;
Why, yet it lives there uncheck'd that Antonio hath
I have to use: thy frank election make;
To the court of guard; he is of note: our hour
evident to any formal capacity; there is no
No doubt, my liege, if each man do his best.
No, Exeter, these graces challenge grace:
[To KING CLAUDIUS]  O, ho! do you mark that?
several tunes faster than you'll tell money; he
Ne'er look'd but on my back; when they shall see
Seems much unequal: he's married to Octavia.
As market-men for oxen, sheep, or horse.
My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
these arms till you had recovered your ancient
As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
I'll speak no more but 'Vengeance rot you all!'
horses: the duke himself will be to-morrow at
Have not to do with him, beware of him;
Sir, it is the king's most sweet pleasure and
known to Desdemona: if she will return me my
I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the king.
My child? away with't! Even thou, that hast
O, my all-worthy lord!
He pleaded still not guilty and alleged
Lord Longaville is one.
Mad and fantastic execution,
Take to you no hard thoughts:
From twelve to seventy, and pouring war
ne'er flatter thee. O you gods, what a number of
I could myself
Could I but catch it for them.
I kneel and then implore her blessing. Lady,
the right: but to the point. As I say, this
the fear of God, and not with drunken knaves.
daughter with clipping her; now he thanks the old
duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on
Exeunt BOYET and MARIA
My heart will be a burthen to me. Leave me,
the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must
Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your
To show an unfelt sorrow is an office
Here to this place, i' the open air, before
From thousand dangers; bid him bury it
come again in his affairs, unless it be to report
vous avez le possession de moi,--let me see, what
Has spoken like a traitor, and shall answer
This way will I disrobe the images,
No, believe me.
As liking of the lady's virtuous gifts,
With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
Sir, the king is a noble gentleman, and my familiar,
Still seem as does the king.
Alack, what trouble
Ay, marry, is't:
Have loved it too: I would not change this hue,
And plighter of high hearts! O, that I were
what I am willing to keep in; therefore it charges
Enter OCTAVIA with her train
Like an Olympian wrestling: this have I seen;
Grew a companion to the common streets,
How mean you, sir? I pretty, and my saying apt? or
Not truly speaks; who speaks not truly, lies.
tale shall put you down. Then did we two set on you
Why art thou thus attired, Andronicus?
Give me leave, Caesar,--
Be not offended:
Give me some wine, and let me speak a little.
And they indeed had no cause to mistrust;
And hither hale that misbelieving Moor,
But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free,
A local habitation and a name.
That profit us. What, ho! slave! Caliban!
If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
six time pieced and a woman's crupper of velure,
Hark you, Guildenstern; and you too: at each ear a
Farewell, gentle mistress: farewell, Nan.
To seek the light of truth; while truth the while
I'll choke myself: there's all I'll do for you.
You'll mar the light by taking it in snuff;
Exit
Ten, my lord.
How this foul rout began, who set it on;
If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
I bear Antonio, that I follow thus
Which Harry Percy here at Holmedon took,
A kinder value of the people than
Why that the naked, poor and mangled Peace,
[Aside to SUFFOLK]
And not depending on his friendly wish.
With sorrowful water? Now I see, I see,
That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
I must believe you, sir:
As hazel nuts and sweeter than the kernels.
Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane;
Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness
embassies; that they have seemed to be together,
But let the frame of things disjoint, both the
As the most noble corse that ever herald
This fellow is wise enough to play the fool;
And he that sleeps here swims.
And he that's once denied will hardly speed.
Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
Off with his head, and set it on York gates;
A shorter time shall send me to you, lords:
For some new honours that are heap'd on Caesar.
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
What, four? thou saidst but two even now.
As when thou grew'st thyself.
Or dead, give's cause to mourn his funeral,
Might I but know thee by thy household badge.
I cannot find him: may be the knave bragged of that
valour bear the sin upon their own heads. I'll take
Thou blow'st for Hector.
In the election of a sir so rare,
love; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of
Poor rogues, I pray you, say.
I swear I will not die to-day for any man's
So much fairer
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,
Madam, I will.
As high in the air as this unthankful king,
In that and all things will we show our duty.
My present business calls me from you now.
And worship this dull fool!
Yet I am richer than my base accusers,
Were half to half the world by the ears and he.
he should take his choice. O admirable man! Paris?
This is in thee a nature but infected;
And make fair weather in your blustering land.
And given his deputation all the organs
Who, not the duke? yes, your beggar of fifty; and
But for Achilles, mine own searching eyes
The argument of your praise, balm of your age,
May blame, but not control. Who's there? the traitor?
I told your majesty as much before:
Flourish. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, and Attendants
That, in regard King Henry gives consent,
That thought he could do more, a very little
As you love strokes, so jest with me again.
The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
hours since, and he was ever precise in
Nobly doom'd!
When with a happy storm they were surprised
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
Rosalind: so adieu.
Be shook to air.
Second a villain and a murderer?
'Tis very true: but that time offer'd sorrow;
Lesser his person than an ill report;
No worse than I, upon some agreement
A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife:
All hid, all hid; an old infant play.
[Aside]  Doctors doubt that: if Anne Page be my
He--to give fear to use and liberty,
And my imaginations are as foul
I say, they nourish'd disobedience, fed
To entertain your highness and your empress.
Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went,
Peace!--
Ay, in truth, my lord;
And let the subject see, to make them know
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats,
What need one?
For now hath time made me his numbering clock:
What have we to do with Diana? Pray you, will you go with us?
That men would tell their children 'This is he;'
Into a manly stride, and speak of frays
Do no more offices of life to't than
Most noble sir,
For no man, sir.
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
I fear I am attended by some spies.
As that of true and faithful Juliet.
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
Thou talk'st of nothing.
It's no matter for that, so she sleep not in her talk.
Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'
these rebels, they offend none but the virtuous: I
Pre-eminence, and all the large effects
Come, go with us, we'll bring thee to our crews,
Come, where be these gallants? who's at home?
Post speedily to my lord your husband; show him
What trumpet? look, Menelaus.
My emperor hath wrote, I must from hence;
The ratifiers and props of every word,
How now, my lords!
The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour,
Then get your husband's lands, to do them good.
When Cassio left my wife: what didst not like?
were to make a monster of the multitude: of the
Kill the poys and the luggage! 'tis expressly
Out-go my thinking on you.
Must gently be preserved, cherish'd, and kept:
No, on the barren mountains let him starve;
Before the common distribution, at
acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir?
behind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you
To such a greeting: villain am I none;
His liberty is full of threats to all;
Contemning Rome, he has done all this, and more,
And now, my lord protector, view the letter
Thus proudly pight upon our Phrygian plains,
As you have for Olivia: you cannot love her;
Nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
Signior Bassanio!
What, cardinal, is your priesthood grown peremptory?
In such a rein, in full as proud a place
Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye,
Some two months hence my will shall here be made:
Sir, I could perceive nothing at all from her; no,
'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art but a scurvy fellow.'
Of your chaste daughter the wide difference
I would not be the villain that thou think'st
o' the town commended him for a true man.
Let's obey his humour a little further: come,
Faster than spring-time showers comes thought
Where is he now?
O excellent device! was there ever heard a better,
Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
If this but answer to my just belief,
Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
Both now and ever bless her! 'tis a girl,
My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
malice in my breath. Meeting two such wealsmen as
SCENE I. On board PERICLES' ship, off Mytilene. A close
Silence! one word more
With robbers' hands my hospitable favours
Re-enter BOULT with MARINA
I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
To stay the providence of some high powers
I'll weringly to him: to gain his colour
Well;
Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow,
they would talk themselves mad.
Which never dreamt on aught but butcheries:
fair weather that you make yourself: it is needful
Thou dost advise me
But yet I'll bury thee: thou'lt go, strong thief,
And of your choice, these reverend fathers; men
Have rived the knotty oaks, and I have seen
Thy news?
O Pyramus, arise!
Hath full relation to the penalty,
Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
of it but that she loves him with an enraged
That touch me near, wherein thou must be secret.
To fall before the lion than the wolf!
To be inclined my way!
these strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had
You are looked for and called for, asked for and
her, child, if she be a whore.
Did I, Bardolph?
If you'll implore it, that will free your life,
Each one already blazing by our meeds,
His fortunes I will weep; and, 'twixt each groan
grange, resides this dejected Mariana. At that
Why seek'st thou to possess me with these fears?
Than in the note of judgment; and worthier
Why stay we, then?
I should think my honesty ranker than my wit.
[Unmasking]  I answer to that name. What is your will?
And I for Rosalind.
Ye re goodly things, you voices!
Shall, for that vast of night that they may work,
To QUEEN MARGARET
What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death,
His face still combating with tears and smiles,
Thou hast hit it: come, sit on me.
The resignation of thy state and crown
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
His daughter, and the heir of's kingdom, whom
daughter nor my sister; we are gone else. Sir, I
Of much good news?
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends,
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
The sooner to effect what I intended:
Than some that have accused them wear their hats.
The offices of nature, bond of childhood,
And pour our treasures into foreign laps,
Yes, but it held not:
can do no more: nay, a horse cannot fetch, but only
Enter certain Reapers, properly habited: they  join with the Nymphs in a graceful dance;  towards the end whereof PROSPERO starts  suddenly, and speaks; after which, to a  strange, hollow, and confused noise, they heavily vanish
Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home
Where is Posthumus? What is in thy mind,
Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lust
To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffet
Come hither, mistress. Is your name Goneril?
friends? O, what a precious comfort 'tis, to have
To take is not to give.
But since she did neglect her looking-glass
Which by my presence might have been concluded.
Methinks no body should be sad but I:
holding up of hands, with countenances of such
And sing them loud even in the dead of night;
his own head, the king is not to answer it.
Should strike such terror to his enemies.
Ay, night by night, in studying good for England,
Melt Egypt into Nile! and kindly creatures
Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie,
Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress,
All the occurrences, whatever chanced,
Have patience, sir,
Which the brain makes of fumes: our very eyes
Ay, it stands so that I may hardly
boy. Now bless thyself: thou mettest with things
He is wit's pedler, and retails his wares
Is, like a blasted sapling, wither'd up:
That thought you worthy of it.
To let you know my thoughts.
I should be wise, for honesty's a fool
Good lady,
Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his
She hath good leave.
This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
At my misfortunes? can thy spirit wonder
We are again forsworn, in will and error.
Because he is near kinsman unto Charles.
As doth the fury of two desperate men
Arise, I pray you, rise:
AENEAS passes
Now, sir, what news?
And bring your music forth into the air.
That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here,
O ye gods,
The secrets of his overcharged soul;
As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe
This night intends to steal away your daughter:
[Aside]  I think I shall drink in pipe wine first
Will close the eye of anguish.
Poor knave, I blame thee not; thou art o'er-watch'd.
Urged by the commons? Doth his majesty
Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him:
To the noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
She is not bred so dull but she can learn;
That won you without blows! Despising,
And put you in the catalogue of those
What yesternight our council did decree
Come, good sweet lady. Prithee, Virgilia, turn thy
There all is marr'd; there lies a cooling card.
Advance your standards, draw your willing swords.
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
How chance my daughter is not with you? Do not
And ask of thee forgiveness: so we'll live,
Is it but thought so? what are they that think it?
Therefore I do it; and I make no doubt
Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night;
Cut with her golden oars the silver stream,
poor with begging.
Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO
And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here.
I like him well.
Hid in an auger-hole, may rush, and seize us?
For want of means, poor rats, had hang'd themselves:
Is lechery so look'd after?
His study is his tilt-yard, and his loves
And yet she is inferior to none.
'Faith, for their poverty, I know not where they had
Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about?
A man of his place, and so near our favour,
I pardon him.
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
Is like a villain with a smiling cheek,
And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn
I speak too loud.
Grace grow where those drops fall!
How malicious is my fortune, that I must repent to
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
SCENE I. Court of Macbeth's castle.
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?
O gods!
In very likeness of a roasted crab,
Master Parson Evans I will do what I can for your
buried in thy eyes; and moreover I will go with
What is she?
Exit
Your grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York,
But justly, as you have exceeded all promise,
being so proper.
His cupbearer,--whom I from meaner form
By the woman's means?
Then let us teach our trial patience,
Ay, so you serve us
Not so, Sir Walter: we'll withdraw awhile.
Among my wife and her confederates,
To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
So, so; come, give me that: this way; well said.
Strains his young nerves and puts himself in posture
Make me believe that thou art only mark'd
First, from the park let us conduct them thither;
'Tis not our husbandry.
Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
Of pale and bloodless emulation:
And may diseases lick up their false bloods!
I will do't; but yet she is a goodly creature.
in. The remembrance of her father never approaches
Now Jove afford you cause!
Not so, my lord; it is not so, I swear;
And this neglection of degree it is
Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:
With such austerity as 'longeth to a father.
But she, your subject, loathes such sovereignty.
of fashion: richly suited, but unsuitable: just
Fair ladies mask'd are roses in their bud;
Have done thy charm, thou hateful wither'd hag!
Look in my face.
Some ditch wherein to die; the foul'st best fits
By nature made for murders and for rapes.
The prodigal Christian. Jessica, my girl,
Why answer not the double majesties
you are to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort
but with all duteous love
I but believe it partly;
O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
hither: here he does but repair it. I know he will
I am afraid to think what I have done;
I shall be satisfied.
His glorious deeds for my indignities.
Murder her brothers, and then marry her!
Free pardon to each man that has denied
Which of these sorrows is he subject to?
Our loving lawful, and our faith not torn.
assembly: whither should they come?
Or manage it to part these men with me.
That lock up your restraint. For you, Posthumus,
And never show thy head by day nor light.
And soar with them above a common bound.
From thence to England; where I hope ere long
The purple testament of bleeding war;
Biondello, what of that?
I am sorry for thee: thou art come to answer
Ay, I would I were deaf; it makes me have a slow heart.
to a husband we set his youngest free for a husband,
Peace, I say. Good even to you, friend.
this Jew my master. The fiend is at mine elbow and
shall find, within these two days he will be here.
As by your high imperial majesty
Whiles hounds and horns and sweet melodious birds
I will make proof of thine.
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of
Sorry am I that our good will effects
Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
What 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance.
Dies
Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands;
The Genius and the mortal instruments
To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount,
Go, call our uncle to our presence straight;
Is he at Master Ford's already, think'st thou?
She made good view of me; indeed, so much,
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
Re-enter DOUGLAS; he fights with FALSTAFF,  who falls down as if he were dead, and exit DOUGLAS. HOTSPUR is wounded, and falls
Whom Henry, our late sovereign, ne'er could brook?
Holy Gonzalo, honourable man,
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
Excursions. Enter RICHARD and CLIFFORD
A fine musician to instruct our mistress;
Exeunt PRINCESS and train
That keep her from her rest.
it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
Pyramus is not killed indeed; and, for the more
ACT IV
Who of their broken debtors take a third,
And so I do, and with his gifts present
perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
Not half so bad as thine to England's king,
Durst not presume to look once in the face.
Will thither straight, for willingness rids way;
Enter AEMILIUS
I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I
His mother shames him so, poor boy, he weeps.
enemies; and what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath
And not seek a queen to make him rich:
my l'envoy.
cover of the salt hides the salt, and therefore it
And Buckingham, back'd with the hardy Welshmen,
[Sings]
Unarm, Eros; the long day's task is done,
Come, go we in procession to the village.
Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
Well, while I live I'll fear no other thing
be both at once delivered.
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
Thy hope ends here!
Enter JULIET
Bow themselves when he did sing:
yet it is necessary. An old sheep-whistling rogue a
But your request shall make me let it pass.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
Forgive my fearful sails! I little thought
Enter THERSITES
And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus:
Sometimes her head on one side, some another;
Exeunt
We'll ne'er come there again.'
Richmond! When last I was at Exeter,
Pursue him to his house, and pluck him thence:
'em good shipping! But who is here? mine old
Antiochus and his daughter dead;
Thereby to have defeated you and me,
Would all those fatterers were thine enemies then,
The children thus disposed, my wife and I,
There is gold for you;
We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,
Rises
O master! what a strange infection
Quick proceeders, marry! Now, tell me, I pray,
thanks: but that I will have a recheat winded in my
The clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it.
Well, march we on,
beholding to your wives for: but he comes armed in
My hand, bully; thou shalt have egress and regress;
Nor change my countenance for this arrest:
Thou diest within this hour.
foot, look you, is fixed upon a spherical stone,
Feeds beast as man: the nobleness of life
Enter SOMERSET
A woman moved is like a fountain troubled,
To the best bride-bed will we,
Why he, of all the rest, hath never moved me.
But for my brother not a man would speak,
My liege, the Duke of Buckingham is taken;
Supply me with the habit and instruct me
Nor can one England brook a double reign,
Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest, and
His power went out in such distractions as
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
a displeasure against you, look you,--
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
Profane fellow
Thus hath the course of justice wheel'd about,
Then have you lost a sight, which was to be seen,
my father is here look'd for every day,
O, I am mock'd,
A kind good night to all!
If I discover'd not which way she was gone,
Even till we make the main and the aerial blue
Your were is alike to reap a proper man:
My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words;
peat the door for Master Page.
measure him,' says she, 'by my own spirit; for I
Enter MACBETH, Doctor, and Attendants
Exit
Enter two British Captains and Soldiers
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
And strain what other means is left unto us
And how do yours?
This act is as an ancient tale new told,
Trust me, I am glad on't.
You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine;
Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false!
See you these clothes? say you see them not and
have another leek in my pocket, which you shall eat.
by this hand, I'll turn my mercy out o' doors
God ha' mercy on his soul!
To shame the guise o' the world, I will begin
No certain life achieved by others' death.
O, how it yearn'd my heart when I beheld
Our fears do make us traitors.
Who, like a foul and ugly witch, doth limp
Pray now, your news?
Your father's image is so hit in you,
Exeunt
For you to laugh and leap and say you are merry,
Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment
Heat them and they retort that heat again
And you, sir.
Enter KING HENRY and EXETER
Use mercy to them all. For us, dear uncle,
How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
That from his loins no hopeful branch may spring,
As I guess, Marcius,
An honour in him which buys out his fault--
It is not truer he is Angelo
And when you have done so, bring the keys to me.
For which thou whipp'st her. The usurer hangs the cozener.
This diamond was my mother's: take it, heart;
That the false housewife Fortune break her wheel,
Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard
Alas, the day!
The king hath many marching in his coats.
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
Exit
Fellows, stand fast; I see a passenger.
Nay, do not fly; I think we have watch'd you now
Thieves! thieves!
You make strong party, or defend yourself
Mistress Anne Page? She has brown hair, and speaks
She I kill'd! I did so: but thou strikest me
And soon at supper-time I'll visit you
And, being so, shall have like want of pity.
To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
SCENE VI. The same. A room in the brothel.
ACT III
Lives my sweet son?
I am ashamed on't. Denied that honourable man!
Hark, slave, it is but this:
Exit
And harsh in sound to thine.
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
And if thy poor devoted suppliant may
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.
Would without lapsing suffer: nay, sometimes,
Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius.
have her or no.
Nothing but my fortune.
not to do your office, as you will answer it at your peril.'
What is her mother?
No, I hear not your honest friend; I hear you.
For, as I think, they do command him home,
For the ass to the Jude; give it him:--Jud-as, away!
Where shall we go?
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
Let me have such a bowl may hold my thanks,
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have
For nothing can seem foul to those that win.
There's five to one; besides, they all are fresh.
Turns head against the lion's armed jaws,
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Away!
Offending charity: if but a dozen French
Were it not better,
Much deserved on his part and equally remembered by
In the church-way paths to glide:
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
And as I find her, so am I affected.
Nor now I had not, but that I am bound
With him! why, 'tis not possible.
Thy nerves are in their infancy again
My joy of liberty is half eclipsed.
often give us soldiers the lie: but we pay them for
Create her child of spleen; that it may live,
'T has been a turbulent and stormy night.
Up.
spit in his face, so she defied him.
truly how thou likest her.
Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?
ACT I
vulgar,--O base and obscure vulgar!--videlicet, He
Exceeding wise, fair-spoken, and persuading:
Is there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Beggar?
Sister, you know he promised me a chain;
SCENE X. The camp of the Volsces.
Both
I do not bear these crossings. Give me leave
Into the flame.
In what safe place you have bestow'd my money,
An alarum: excursions. Enter FASTOLFE and a Captain
Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand,
Unto some monstrous state.
Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire's tomb,
My riches are these poor habiliments,
Can trace me in the tedious ways of art
This his good melancholy oft began,
for our own doth little advantage. If he be not
Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself,
To whom we all rest generally beholding.
There must we bring him; and myself have play'd
What sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust?
Uncle, give me your hands: nay, dry your eyes;
Exit
your voices,
Than fly to others that we know not of?
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled:
Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not
Exeunt
He dies upon my scimitar's sharp point
False accusation blush and tyranny
Exit CASSIO
More fertile-fresh than all the field to see;
What would you do?
Ay, noble father, if our words will serve.
Our scions, put in wild and savage stock,
shoulders, shall within this hour be off; thy
Farewell, good Pompey. Commend me to the prison,
How now!
Now, herald, are the dead number'd?
Unless she gave it to yourself in bed,
pluck the lined crutch from thy old limping sire,
And world's exile is death: then banished,
Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not;
Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
Mistress, you must come away to your father.
Sexton too.
hiss, you may cry 'Well done, Hercules! now thou
End in a word: such is the breath of kings.
private, it is a very vile life. Now, in respect it
park with the rational hind Costard: she deserves well.
To die when I desire.
To bless your eye withal.
SCENE I. London. A street.
From giving aid which late I promised.
Enter a Doctor
Sweet varied notes, enchanting every ear!
Shave the head, and tie the beard; and say it was
Thank the heavens, lord, thou art of sweet composure;
Your grace has given a precedent of wisdom
Provided that you weed your better judgments
And with thy daring folly burn the world?
And, by all likelihood, some cheer is toward.
That all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied
I'll lend you thus much moneys'?
Dead March. Enter the Funeral of KING HENRY the  Fifth, attended on by Dukes of BEDFORD, Regent of  France; GLOUCESTER, Protector; and EXETER, Earl of WARWICK, the BISHOP OF WINCHESTER, Heralds,  and c
Exit GALLUS
their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the
Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on.
No, it will hang upon my richest robes
Mingled his royalty with capering fools,
Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
I care not whither, for I beg no favour,
You may not pass, you must return: our general
And yet to win her, all the world to nothing!
Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't;
Now is your time: speak loud and kneel before him.
Sir, give him head: I know he'll prove a jade.
And spend our flatteries, to drink those men
Locking the door
My gracious lord, I come but for mine own.
The Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral,
And, now the matter grows to compromise,
art as honest a true fellow as any is in Bohemia.
Trouble him not;
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
Master Brook, that ever governed frenzy. I will tell
what 'cerns it you if I wear pearl and gold? I
Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
Within her quarter and mine own precinct
To steal his sweet and honey'd sentences;
To look into the bottom of my place:
conclusion. For thy part, Claudio, I did think to
Now Margaret's curse is fall'n upon our heads,
Well, as time shall try: 'In time the savage bull
himself most feelingly personated. I can write very
I must be held a rancorous enemy.
Will you sit down?
want no instruction; if their daughters be capable,
As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,
Lavinia is thine elder brother's hope.
What talk you of the posy or the value?
Enter PROSPERO above, invisible. Enter several  strange Shapes, bringing in a banquet;  they dance about it with gentle actions of  salutation; and, inviting the King,  and c. to eat, they depart
There is not only disgrace and dishonour in that,
Come your ways, sir; come.
It would seem strange unto him when he waked.
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
with better music.
'Tis likely,
the hunter, attends thee at the orchard-end:
How would you live, Pompey? by being a bawd? What
Holding a trencher, jesting merrily?
That hath been breeder of these dire events.
All this! ay, more: fret till your proud heart break;
Uncle, farewell: and, cousin too, adieu:
Thou art my friend, that know'st my tongue so well.
To the great sender turns a sour offence,
Thrice to thine and thrice to mine
If life did ride upon a dial's point,
Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of
The verier wag o' the two?
As I bethink me, you should not be king
Since the first father wore it: this ring he holds
Enter, from one side, LUCIUS, IACHIMO, and  the Roman Army: from the other side, the  British Army; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS following,  like a poor soldier. They march over and go  out. Then enter again, in skirmish, IACHIMO  and POSTHUMUS LEONATUS he vanquisheth and disarmeth IACHIMO, and then leaves him
did that I did not this seven year before, I blushed
And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven;
Harp not on that, nor do not banish reason
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
Here, master: what cheer?
What gold is this? what Adam dost thou mean?
By my so potent art. But this rough magic
And let me be a slave, to achieve that maid
Exit CALIBAN
But I must needs to the Tower, my lords?
curate and your sweet self are good at such
Say 'Who's a traitor? Gloucester he is none.'
being, as I am, littered under Mercury, was likewise
thy love? I could: shall I entreat thy love? I
This she delivered in the most bitter touch of
Then let her beauty be her wedding-dower;
That none shall have access unto Bianca
Which had you rather, that the most just law
With hope to find the like event in love,
Ha, ha! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied
More than the locking-up the spirits a time,
Mark it, nuncle:
But wherefore do you hold me here so long?
Beating him
revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will
Ay, Casca; tell us what hath chanced to-day,
Let my master in, Luce.
Then thus. Baptista is safe, talking with the
Misprision in the highest degree! Lady, cucullus non
Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
So do you.
Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;
dare, and when you dare. Do me right, or I will
The constable desires thee thou wilt mind
Yet nature is made better by no mean
Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
The art itself is nature.
Achilles shall have word of this intent;
Whose weak untimber'd sides but even now
Is in one mile: if they have measured many,
Pyramus, you begin: when you have spoken your
Alarum. Cry within, 'Fly, fly, fly!'
By your patience, no. My stars shine darkly over
Save back to England, all the world's my way.
So shalt thou sinew both these lands together;
Which is infallible, to England's crown.
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
Your colt's tooth is not cast yet.
My son George Stanley is frank'd up in hold:
Into so quiet and so sweet a style.
Would not be purged, she sent you word she was dead;
shall get it with running. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--
constable's wife any harm? I would know that of
I know him: a' was a botcher's 'prentice in Paris,
Would even infect my mouth, I do forgive
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style.
Soft! I will go along;
And though it was mine own, part of my heritage,
I pray thee, peace. I will be flesh and blood;
Or that I could forget what I have been,
So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
To after-eye him.
First Serving-man	Nay, if we be forbidden stones,
Come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of
almost a fray.
All punish'd in the person of this child,
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
That speak him full of grace.
You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paid
Than if the earl were here; for men must think,
that I returned you an empty messenger.
On the sixth hour; at which time, my lord,
Do you triumph, Roman? do you triumph?
Or make some sign how I may do thee ease:
Going to find a bare-foot brother out
parrots. Go in, sirrah; bid them prepare for dinner.
To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,
despair, if they were not cherished by our virtues.
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
How! me?
Believe me, cousin Gloucester,
Exit
And may ye both be suddenly surprised
I was a man: all would not do. A plague of all
love. Read thou this challenge; mark but the
O, now I want the priest that spake to me:
In any case, be not too rough in terms;
Why, 'tis good to be sad and say nothing.
Resolve on this, thou shalt be fortunate,
Many years of happy days befal
Noble lady,
But he and his shall know that justice lives
In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
wherefore: so that, if they love they know not why,
Who should withhold me?
To his experienced tongue, yet let it please both,
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
Now, therefore, be it known to noble Lewis,
bodily part of your mistress, my ten thousand ducats
And Somerset another goodly mast?
Exit
And makes men mad.
What say you, master?
While he, renowned noble gentleman,
Unto a stranger knight to be so bold:
As I kiss thee. Nay, do not snatch it from me;
Exit
But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
With language that would make me spurn the sea,
As much unto my good lord chamberlain!
What safe and nicely I might well delay
I think it be: but we have no great cause to desire
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
This way fall I to death.
him in his own grease. Did you ever hear the like?
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
tell me who it is.
We have given order to be next our own.
Into this breathing world, scarce half made up,
And leave you to the hearing of the cause;
Uneven is the course, I like it not.
Than ever at one time the clergy yet
But, like in sickness, did I loathe this food;
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Black, forsooth: coal-black as jet.
Solicit'st here a lady that disdains
I remember
'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake
'Twere good, yours did; for, sir, to tell you plain,
Or lambs pursued by hunger-starved wolves.
Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.
Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of
Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
Against my power; thrice from the banks of Wye
Now, good Cesario, but that piece of song,
Could put into them; my breeding was, sir, as
Exit
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Were feverous and did tremble.
That some night-tripping fairy had exchanged
Exeunt Lords
Where's the Prince Dauphin? I have news for him.
Both in his private conscience and his place,
With sweet rehearsal of my morning's dream.
fee'd every slight occasion that could but niggardly
His days are foul and his drink dangerous.
Why, if it be so, I will marry her upon any
But safer triumph is this funeral pomp,
Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath'd
Sergeant, you shall.
Which, by the right and virtue of my place,
Only for bearing burdens, and sore blows
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
I dreamt my master and another fought,
ladyship were best to have some guard about you, if
Wherefore weep you?
ACT IV
Enter SEBASTIAN and Clown
Will shake this island.
Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is:
I will deny thee nothing:
No less! nay, bigger; women grow by men.
Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown.
Faith, sir, he has led the drum before the English
And gives them what he will, not what they crave.
And what is Edward but ruthless sea?
Call him to present trial: if he may
With bag and baggage: many thousand on's
Awaked you not with this sore agony?
Even on the instant.
Well, sir.
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player
Shall the contents discover, something rare
Not in this heat, sir, now.
seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason.
Tale-porter, and five or six honest wives that were
And perfected by the swift course of time.
Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?
His bark is stoutly timber'd, his pilot
My master through his art foresees the danger
Drones suck not eagles' blood but rob beehives:
boy, the next way home.
Hum!
I'll tell thee, Suffolk, why I am unmeet:
SCENE V. Another part of the Park.
what; for if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I
Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
Something unfilial: reason my son
That I can tell you too. The Archbishop
Is it sir Robert's son that you seek so?
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
if bawdy talk offend you, we'll have very little of
in honour come off again.
To towers and windows, yea, to chimney-tops,
And the most noble mother of the world
Then give me leave to have prerogative;
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
You'll take it ill.
I do not so secure me in the error,
With the dove of Paphos might the crow
We will afflict the emperor in his pride.
knocking out his brains.
Rome and the righteous heavens be my judge,
There is an old tale goes that Herne the hunter,
And what's untimely done. O, come away!
written in eight and six.
Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts:
Sir,
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
Exit Peto
So are you, sweet,
Yes Shylock, I will seal unto this bond.
Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power
Ay, and a kind one too:
I have, my lord.
Exit an Attendant
I hope I shall know your honour better.
resting here, accuses him of letters he had formerly
In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
Enter two Pages
Be done in this and all things! I obey.
A shop of all the qualities that man
To shake all cares and business from our age;
rough, and will not be roughly used.
Enter DOUGLAS
Why, so can I, or so can any man;
Will cause Demetrius to awake.
With an my heart.
Hear the ambassadors.
'Tis present death I beg; and one thing more
The better that it pleases your good worship to ask.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve;
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
make my eyes look red, that it may be thought I have
O, 'tis too true.
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
Why should this a desert be?
SCENE III. The same. A hall of state: a banquet prepared.
Or the reputed son of Coeur-de-lion,
For Dickon thy master is bought and sold.'
Cries of itself 'No more:' now breathless wrong
Nothing but this; 'tis 'bona terra, mala gens.'
To ORLANDO
By losing of our prayers.
And yet we should, for perpetuity,
This day shall be a love-day, Tamora.
Call all in all sufficient? Is this the nature
My lord, my lord,
O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven;
Let our best heads
You're liars all.
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, VINCENTIO, GRUMIO, with Attendants
Which on your just proceeding I'll keep off,
Exeunt Gaolers, bearing out the body of MORTIMER
Did I not bid thee meet me in the park,
Let not our babbling dreams affright our souls:
thou now find out to hide thee from this open and
flesh and blood is not to be punished by him. Show
Of every syllable that here was spoke.
And next his throat unto the butcher's knife.
Your eye hath too much youth in't: not a month
Exeunt Whitmore and others with Suffolk
But you must join in souls to mock me too?
Beseech you, sir, desire
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
This is my treasurer: let him speak, my lord,
way.
adventurously. I must stay with the lackeys, with
To do what service am I sent for hither?
And, till thou be restored, thou art a yeoman.
Enter HECTOR
Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,
So soon as yours could win me: so it should now,
The mad-brain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff
Patience, be near me still; and set me lower:
come on? how then? Can honour set to a leg? no: or
Strength should be lord of imbecility,
SCENE I. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
But with our sword we wiped away the blot;
If that be true, I shall see my boy again;
true-bred cowards as ever turned back; and for the
Some mark of virtue on his outward parts:
Nor how to be contented with one wife,
And mine, fair lady Bona, joins with yours.
He shall be answerable; and so farewell.
I thank thee, Meg; these words content me much.
I know you. Where's the king?
Romeo can,
To enter human hearing, from Argier,
Save that we do the denunciation lack
To come at first when he doth send for her,
One word in private with you, ere I die.
She's there, and she is yours.
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
That will I show you presently.
For this night's watching.
Fight, gentlemen of England! fight, bold yoemen!
Do you know me, my lord?
Lady, I am not well; else I should answer
Nay, I have done already.
Made wit with musing weak, heart sick with thought.
Where learned you that oath, fool?
So he did, my lord:
Why that's my spirit!
And frown upon 's.
Why, so I say.
His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood;
Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds
me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
It was not brought me, my lord; there's the
My physic says 'ay.'
burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep, and that a
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
Exit
I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.
I prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow;
And tell me, noble Diomed, faith, tell me true,
I am the last that will last keep his oath.
Justice, sweet prince, against that woman there!
What, the commonwealth their boots? will she hold
bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet
O, that I knew thy heart; and knew the beast,
By message craved, so is Lord Talbot come.
My being in Egypt, Caesar,
Wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so
He is my prize; I will not look upon.
Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.
Exeunt
Pray you, do so: she's a very tattling woman.
Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO
Re-enter MACDUFF
Feed him with apricocks and dewberries,
He stifles her
O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.
The deputy elected by the Lord:
Thou hast most kindly hit it.
And work confusion on his enemies.
You are--a senator.
Let her alone, lady: as she is now, she will but
Come on, my lords, the better foot before:
No more, I say: if thou dost plead for him,
He does fair justice; if he give me way,
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
Put on by us, if, in your heavenly eyes,
Great nature cries 'Deny not.' let the Volsces
Now the pledge; now, now, now!
Then you say as I say; for, I am sure, he is not Hector.
They are as innocent as grace itself:
My daughter! what of her? Renew thy strength:
My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
I told your grace they would talk anon.
Exeunt
Constringed in mass by the almighty sun,
My Lord of Warwick, hear me but one word:
Like to a pair of loving turtle-doves
comprehend:
Hold me a foe;
SCENE VII. A camp, at a small distance from Rome.
To melt myself away in water-drops!
A form of strangeness as we pass along:
Think, speak, cast, write, sing, number, ho!
Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice,
whips the dogs: 'Friend,' quoth I, 'you mean to whip
In craving your opinion of my title,
Remember to avenge me on the French.'
Whose present grace to present slaves and servants
But durst not tempt a minister of honour,
in Thisbe's garter, it would have been a fine
That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax;
From her shall read the perfect ways of honour,
Is Lucius general of the forces?
From thee to die were torture more than death:
To show the love and duty that I bear you
To RICHMOND
I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats;
Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a
No, Master Brook; but the peaking Cornuto her
To such as may the passive drugs of it
ACT III
And never more have joy.
He is already named, and gone to Scone
Thou hast harp'd my fear aright: but one
Nay, conceive me, conceive me, sweet coz: what I do
Here is her oath for love, her honour's pawn.
A Gallian girl at home; he furnaces
they purpose their services. Besides, there is no
Than what you should, made you against the grain
Were there surprised and taken prisoners.
Thou art deceived: 'tis not thy southern power,
And here am I, and wode within this wood,
If in the world he live, we'll seek him out;
The rampant bear chain'd to the ragged staff,
France, triumph in thy glorious prophetess!
Nor to betray you any way to sorrow,
Having often of your open bounty tasted,
Out-faced infant state and done a rape
This man is Pyramus, if you would know;
A man who is the abstract of all faults
O, do ye read, my lord, what she hath writ?
If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name; R is for
By her, that else will take the thing she begs,
Let me ask you one word in private.
Whom late you have named for consul.
How! what does his cashiered worship mutter?
When holy and devout religious men
What hast here? ballads?
Saw you Aufidius?
Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life?
And call them shames? which are indeed nought else
Salutation and greeting to you all!
Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt,--
That I should be attach'd in Ephesus,
I claim the promise for her heavenly picture.
If I chance to talk a little wild, forgive me;
More than they were in note: amongst the rest,
ACT V
Blood hath bought blood and blows have answered blows;
They whistle
Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink. Sit down;
I thank you, sir: and, pray you, tell me this:
You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is
This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,
My master knows not but I am gone hence;
To keep his anger still in motion.
Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd:
paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach.
The princess of this country, and the air on't
Which, God he knows, I saw not: for the which
the king, his crown and dignity, thou hast built a
That, had he twenty heads to tender down
A Roman sworder and banditto slave
A noise within, 'Down with the tawny-coats!'
The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
And what these sorrows could not thence exhale,
That any one should therefore be suspicious
O my sweet master! O you memory
This cardinal,
Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed
nether-stocks.
Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford?
Come hither, William; hold up your head; come.
To try the fair adventure of to-morrow.
Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee;
E'en that.
How canst thou woo her?
would sleep till I waked him, you should half his
Of sea and land, which can distinguish 'twixt
Where is Achilles?
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
One sorrow never comes but brings an heir,
And I shall show you peace and fair-faced league;
Exeunt Portia and Nerissa
That is a fault.
[To the Citizens]  Hence to your homes; be gone!
My other self, my counsel's consistory,
Enter certain Romans, with spoils
Enough to stifle such a villain up.
Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth:
Now, by this light, were I to get again,
She loved not the savour of tar nor of pitch,
tempered as mine is to thee.
Under your good correction, I have seen,
'Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost
His face was as the heavens; and therein stuck
And passeth by with stiff unbowed knee,
Is this face Hero's? are our eyes our own?
Exit EDGAR
Art thou, indeed?
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
How hast thou lost thy breath?
Against what should ensue.
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest
Open, locks,
Spur to the rescue of the noble Talbot,
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
Are to the world in general as to Caesar.
Or more than any living man could bear.
On whom there is no more dependency
Of every realm, that did debate this business,
'Jesu preserve thee! welcome, Bolingbroke!'
To be revenged on Rivers, Vaughan, Grey:
And in my conscience do repute his grace
It is a nipping and an eager air.
I have no further gone in this than by
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
The motley fool thus moral on the time,
But fresher than before: and, as thou badest me,
Ay, or else I would I might be hanged, la!
Lords o'er their lords?
He shall not.
But with much forcing of his disposition.
We pout upon the morning, are unapt
Breathe foul contagious darkness in the air.
He says so.
He then unto the ladder turns his back,
Enter CORIOLANUS in mean apparel, disguised and muffled
Language unmannerly, yea, such which breaks
As now it coldly stands, when first I woo'd her!
I'll make you feed on berries and on roots,
The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
I am but as a guiltless messenger.
A dreadful lay! Address thee instantly.
And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pain.
This we prescribe, though no physician;
Well then, confess and live.
Which was as gross as ever touch'd conjecture,
Exit FALSTAFF
Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels,
Forced to cry out. Where I could not be honest,
What is he for a fool that betroths himself to
Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
And I expressly am forbid to touch it,
I found no man but he was true to me.
And make him stoop to the vale. 'Tis wonder
DON
It is the purpose that makes strong the vow;
Make it no wonder; if you knew my business,
Hear, hear how dying Salisbury doth groan!
Of sorrow or of joy?
Here, if it like your honour.
The way which promises assurance; and
Cassius, go you into the other street,
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
thirtieth of May next ensuing. Item, that the duchy
That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble,
A dead march. Exeunt, bearing off the dead bodies; after which a peal of ordnance is shot off
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
Marry, mine host, because I cannot be merry.
To hear meekly, sir, and to laugh moderately; or to
but to the place where; it standeth north-north-east
Who hadst deserved more than a prison.
Hang in what place you please. Here, my good lord.
In doing it, pays itself. Your highness' part
And bear the name and port of gentlemen?
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
myself, and what remains is bestial. My reputation,
That for her love such quarrels may be broach'd
And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
How now!
I have loved her ever since I saw her; and still I
the pin-buttock, the quatch-buttock, the brawn
The virtue that possession would not show us
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such a natural!
Than other princesses can that have more time
Old I do wax; and from my weary limbs
If that the devil and mischance look big
Yes, Pole.
There is an air comes from her: what fine chisel
Why, so, brave lords! when we join in league,
What's to do here, Thomas tapster? let's withdraw.
A man he is of honest and trust:
thing; I'll remember't anon:--even there, thou
She is not within hearing, sir.
Beseech you, first go with me to my house,
discipline come not near thee! Let thy blood be thy
But that my heart accordeth with my tongue,
Do not doubt that; before Emilia here
So you had need; for Orleans is besieged;
Rest, sword; thou hast thy fill of blood and death.
Enough, with over-measure.
But little vantage shall I reap thereby;
Who? that Petruchio came?
The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries
Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
Repair to the senate-house.
To touch his growth nearer than he touch'd mine.
penance: that fire-drake did I hit three times on
Desired us to make stand.
Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be
Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds
time this two and thirty years; God reward me for
Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA
Till famine cling thee: if thy speech be sooth,
For now he lives in fame, though not in life.
Winning will put any man into courage. If I could
My life, sir, in any case: not that I am afraid to
Alas, my lord,
This is as uncivil as strange. I beseech you, do me
Will you remember?
Most like a soldier, order'd honourably.
All sorts of hearts; yea, from the glass-faced flatterer
is a strumpet. What's the news?
Enter IMOGEN
Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French;
Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
The lady that I sent for. Welcome, fair one!
O, 'twill be admirable!
They seize and blindfold him
opportunity.
Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
I have some marks of yours upon my pate,
Would I had done't
Blows fair from land: they stay for nought at all
A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
With liver burning hot. Prevent, or go thou,
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
Enter OSWALD
SCENE I. Coventry.
But she'll not stumble.
Here is a coil with protestation!
This presence knows,
on her, for they ride up and down on her and make
Here love; thou see'st how diligent I am
That in the rescue of Lavinia
O night, O night! alack, alack, alack,
Thy heinous, manifest, and many treasons,
Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the king
That you three fools lack'd me fool to make up the mess:
Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her;
But even with law, against the willful sons
thoughts of your heart with the looks of an empress;
So say we too, but not by Edward's wife;
You shall not bob us out of our melody: if you do,
Of Hymen's purest bed! thou valiant Mars!
Puts off his helmet and hangs his shield behind him
Even by your own.
I'll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with
most nearly appertains to us both. I think our
All is lost;
Well, well, no more of that.
To take her in her heart's extremest hate,
Be those with swords?
Benedick: nobody marks you.
Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it;
Give rest to the minds of others, such as he
She gives the cursed bawd. Here we her place;
'Tis the old Nestor.
We'll draw cuts for the senior: till then lead thou first.
broke any man's head but his own, and that was
If any wretch have put this in your head,
Spoke to your deservings like a chronicle,
This cannot be but a great courtier.
That heaven had made her such a man: she thank'd me,
How to cut off some charge in legacies.
A long flourish
O thou dull Moor! that handkerchief thou speak'st of
That they may crush down with a heavy fall
To ruminate strange plots of dire revenge;
grow to, he had a kind of taste; well, my conscience
Have been Tom's food for seven long year.
SCENE I. Another part of the island.
To three thousand dolours a year.
And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt,
But have you never found my brother's way
He doth nothing but frown, as who should say 'If you
fly?
Much work for tears in many an English mother,
time in you?
A wretched creature and must bend his body,
And feed upon the shadow of perfection
She tells me here, she'd wed the stranger knight,
For sundry weighty reasons.
That to the use of actions fair and good
Neither entitled in the other's heart.
The little number of your doubtful friends.
Madam, they are for you.
Affront Ophelia:
Why, he is the prince's jester: a very dull fool;
be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare:
But not till I am dead. I'll say thou'st gold:
This was not counterfeit: there is too great
And wherefore gaze this goodly company,
Is this the madman?
A noble life before a long, and wish
Be as thou wast wont to be;
To cool a gipsy's lust.
the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar,
Good cousins both, of York and Somerset,
your offices?
That can I;
And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so;
But I will remedy this gear ere long,
With shouts and clamours.
We mourn in black: why mourn we not in blood?
Go, see him out at gates, and follow him,
'Faith, he is posted hence on serious matter.
And they shall be immediately deliver'd.
Will answer our hope in issue of a king;
Aim'd at your highness, no inveterate malice.
The hands of Romans!
indeed: I like not when a 'oman has a great peard;
the moon, I care not.
And stand unshaken yours.
Vere is mine host de Jarteer?
No, if rightly taken, halter.
I pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more.
As Priam is in Ilion.
Sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds.
O, do not learn her wrath; she taught it thee;
Aside
Have lost the wager. Boldness be my friend!
Now say, what would Augustus Caesar with us?
It is too heavy for so light a tune.
That should deracinate such savagery;
O, spare me not, my brother Edward's son,
make thee a pair; and I'll bring thee to the court myself.
And the free maids that weave their thread with bones
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
Come forth.
has not past three or four hairs on his chin,--
I bear a charmed life, which must not yield,
Ready to fight; therefore be resolute.
for a challenge.
Nor nothing monstrous neither?
Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine:
Think, thy slave man rebels, and by thy virtue
Order the trial, marshal, and begin.
What have you now to present unto him?
To shallow  and c.
Enter FORD
And then pursue me as you draw your bow.
O Jesu, my lord the prince!
That you elect no other king but him;
An easy task it is to win our own.
praise me?
should thunder as it did before, I know not
Ay, too well.
Death, death; O amiable lovely death!
They that bear
Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
Have at you now!
How now, Simple! where have you been? I must wait
Which is the greatest lady, the highest?
If he be old enough, what needs your grace
Claribel.
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
sure of your husband now?
Shall in procession sing her endless praise.
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in
Where folly now possesses? Do thou work:
To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
Their royal blood enchafed, as the rudest wind,
SCENE III. Venice. A public place.
Nay, nay, sweet emperor, we must all be friends:
Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,
For time hath set a blot upon my pride.
Remain in't as thou mayst.
Shall hoodwink this mischance: therefore speak softly.
The casting forth to crows thy baby-daughter
A Grecian and his sword, if he do set
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Know of the duke if his last purpose hold,
So thou wilt let me live, and feel no pain.
M,--but then there is no consonancy in the sequel;
I was a poor groom of thy stable, king,
This is the feast that I have bid her to,
Exit
Well, officer, arrest him at my suit.
I'll be a candle-holder, and look on.
O, that delightful engine of her thoughts
That any accent breaking from thy tongue
Now, by the sky that hangs above our heads,
And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
That doth accuse his master of high treason:
The injury of tongues in courts and kingdoms
Against your honour
And so I chide the means that keeps me from it;
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The
You take it off again?
I'll be with you straight go a little before.
Whirring me from my friends.
From which we would not have you warp. Call hither,
Translate his malice towards you into love,
And have a thousand times more cause than he
That ever eye with sight made heart lament!
And died that day when Viola from her birth
Tell them there I have gold; look, so I have.
Must not so stale his palm, nobly acquired;
What will you do with 't, that you have been
And let my sovereign, virtuous Henry,
Now.
For your best health and recreation.
Some little memory of me will stir him--
desire more?
turn, or the breaking of my Spanish sword.
With golden cherubins is fretted: her andirons--
Sometimes we see a cloud that's dragonish;
And that a strange one too, which did awake me:
les mots aussi droit que les natifs d'Angleterre.
To furnish me with some swift means of death
The king would speak with Cornwall; the dear father
For thou hast done a charitable deed.
Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
So hated, and so banish'd: but he has a merit,
be a sinner, honest water, which ne'er left man i' the mire:
To whom as great a charge as little honour
With foreheads villanous low.
Aside
Which now the manage of two kingdoms must
My worthy lord,
Beg at the gates, like Tarquin and his queen.
I'll wink and couch: no man their works must eye.
An honest woman, or not a woman.
Knock, sir! whom should I knock? is there man has
Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman? If
Than to be sure they do; for certainties
And then a mind put in't, either our brags
Can do all this that he hath promised?
with a piece of your performance. Nell, he is full
art hanged. This is to Lord Timon; this to
My lord, this argues conscience in your grace;
Royally!
To be commenced in strands afar remote.
May have the due note of him; and of my land,
At length broke under me and now has left me,
Call'st thou that harm?
Why, the night gone by.
ACT V
That any of these bolder vices wanted
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
One day he gives us diamonds, next day stones.
SCENE III. A chapel in PAULINA'S house.
The harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
Like to a tenement or pelting farm:
I pray you, sir, is it your will
but with nobility and tranquillity, burgomasters and
Mistress Ford, your sorrow hath eaten up my
His private arbours and new-planted orchards,
And so did I.
town-armory, with a broken hilt, and chapeless;
thee thine own goodness hath made; better not to
In all my miseries; but thou hast forced me,
Thy grace shall have it.
Remove from her the means of all annoyance,
Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you?
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
Opposed, as it must be, by the power of the king:
takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
And cannot make away.
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
How do you? What's the news?
instrument of honour again into his native quarter,
Your master quits you; and for your service done him,
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
The interruption of their churlish drums
My lord, that would dishonour him.
I am out of all other tune, methinks.
Tucket within
CANIDIUS marcheth with his land army one way over  the stage; and TAURUS, the lieutenant of OCTAVIUS  CAESAR, the other way. After their going in, is heard the noise of a sea-fight
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
My lord, the enemy is past the marsh
I must away this night toward Padua,
ANTIPHOLUS
The queen is put in anger. You're excused:
In qualities of the best. This man of thine
A meaner than myself; since I myself
Becomes it thee to taunt his valiant age
cannot choose; and to eat no fish.
Which of you shall we say doth love us most?
And many an old man's sigh and many a widow's,
When now I think you can behold such sights,
What news, AEneas, from the field to-day?
Besides, it should appear, that if he had
And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods
Not for the fliers: mark me, and do the like.
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
And aid me with that store of power you have
O, prenez misericorde! ayez pitie de moi!
Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the
Pardon me, madam: little joy have I
Then feeling what small things are boisterous there,
For they that were your enemies are his,
Confronted him with self-comparisons,
Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept!
To bate me a full year.
After the thing it loves.
You do yourselves
He hath confess'd.
That's done, as near as the extremest ends
o' the toe like a parish-top. What, wench!
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
Obeying in commanding, and thy parts
cheese will do 't. There's my gauntlet; I'll prove
SCENE IV. York. The ARCHBISHOP'S palace.
Of what you promised me.
More, more, I prithee, more.
By you relieved, would force me to my duty:
What, must our mouths be cold?
I pray you, what is't o'clock?
To fill the mouth of deep defiance up
And you shall find his vanities forespent
To such abhorr'd pollution.
To go with us into the abbey here
Pray you, put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
Enter LUCIUS, with his sword drawn
Will have it thus; my master and my lord
There lock yourself, and send him word you are dead.
But whether 'twas the coldness of the king,
and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier.
By this time from their fixed beds of lime
the love of Juno, let's go.
and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you
Canterbury,
not deliver't?
Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it.
O, no, my dream was lengthen'd after life;
And gave him graceful posture.
Do not smile at me that I boast her off,
I wish your ladyship all heart's content.
Exit Francis
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
Since men take women's gifts for impudence.
Cuts off more circumstance: they are at hand,
Proud of employment, willingly I go.
You advise me well.
from his book, and it is wonderful.
And, like a rat without a tail,
O, hold me not with silence over-long!
And rail upon the hostess of the house;
And think upon my bidding.
Your lady mother is coming to your chamber:
Was made much poorer by it: but your son,
God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits:
Marry, in her buttocks: I found it out by the bogs.
ACT III
My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
Go, go; you are a counterfeit cowardly knave. Will
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
For all the water in the ocean
Express'd in the condition, let the forfeit
Some faults to make us men. Caesar is touch'd.
You thus employ'd, I will go root away
Do seek subversion of thy harmless life?
Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
As therefore kept to do so.
Here is a dear, a true industrious friend,
A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd
The hand-fast to her lord. I have given him that
charge: you shall comprehend all vagrom men; you are
Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
Swear by my sword.
Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
There is Aufidius; list, what work he makes
And put upon him such a deal of man,
I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,--
You say, you'll marry me, if I be willing?
Never to hold it up again! the spirits
Ah, now no more will I control thy griefs:
I shall be with you presently, good master puppy.
No heart among you? or had you tongues to cry
By decimation, and a tithed death--
new-ta'en sparrow.
turn them together. A man may be too confident: I
Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
I am not sick, if Brutus have in hand
Call you? what is your will?
What advocate hast thou to him?
Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so;
Here's my glove: give me another of thine.
Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest
Between our statures; she hath urged her height;
together is, abandon the society of this female, or,
Quite from himself to God. But now behold,
'Tis double wrong, to truant with your bed
This hateful imperfection of her eyes:
O then, tread down my need, and faith mounts up;
May drop upon his kingdom and devour
You shall not find,
Then, in a moment, Fortune shall cull forth
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
As the duke said,
A loyal and obedient subject is
Enter MENENIUS and Senators
Honour and fortunes, keep with you, Lord Timon!
So York may overlook the town of York.
Ay, but these rags are no part of the duke:
Helenus. I think he went not forth to-day. That's Helenus.
As did AEneas old Anchises bear,
I do not think't.
of his council.
If I break time, or flinch in property
Against the laws and statutes of this town,
abruption? What too curious dreg espies my sweet
Giving our holy virgins to the stain
You speak o' the people,
twenty what were good to be done, than be one of the
To signify unto his majesty
'Lo, Caesar is afraid'?
When thou hast broke it in so dear degree?
'By the Lord, madam,'--
Fading in music: that the comparison
We cannot cross the cause why we were born;
That is the word. I thee defy again.
You speak to Casca, and to such a man
He finds the joys of heaven here on earth;
O, were mine eyeballs into bullets turn'd,
observed: and we are strong in custom. Therefore
Ay, ay, farewell; thy office is discharged.
Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad;
And am moreover suitor that I may
Which reformation must be sudden too,
than a mischief.
Give me my steeled coat. I'll fight for France.
remembered, that such a one and such a one were past
The purpose is perspicuous even as substance,
To God of heaven, King Richard and to me;
He hopes 'bove wisdom, grace and fear:
To me, my father?
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
'Tis just to each of them; he is himself.
Glory is like a circle in the water,
Widow! a pox o' that! How came that widow in?
Therefore I know she is about my height.
Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper,
Varro's Servant	'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks And past.
Thy own wish wish I thee in every place!
Exeunt
When once he was mature for man,
Item, you sent a large commission
But none returns. For us to levy power
And you, good uncle, banish all offence:
The contents of this is the return of the duke: you
Of whom I hope to make much benefit;
vain-glory. He knows not me: I said 'Good morrow,
There's for thy pains.
If the cat will after kind,
I humbly do beseech you of your pardon
Worse than the worst, content.
And humbly thus, with halters on their necks,
But thou the king. Woe doth the heavier sit,
The best news is, that we have safely found
Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou,
late innovation.
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
Obscured in the circle of this forest.
One that attends your ladyship's command.
The image of a wicked heinous fault
His daughter's woe and heavy well-a-day
The cry is still 'They come:' our castle's strength
exchequers to me; they shall be my East and West
Hearing that you prepared for war, acquainted
Fellow, what miracle dost thou proclaim?
I find she names my very deed of love;
Their manners are more gentle-kind than of
And most opportune to our need I have
The bitter disposition of the time
Our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death,
dined with him, and told him on't, and come again to
Sings in GONZALO's ear
With all my heart.
Nor be rebellious to the crown of England,
For ever may my knees grow to the earth,
Doth not the crown of England prove the king?
appelez-vous le pied et la robe?
Anon becomes a mountain. O noble Dauphin,
And what of all this?
Shall I set down your answer so?
What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?
Of senators, of praetors, common suitors,
'Twould prove the verity of certain words
With that she sighed as she stood,
Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her.
Noble tribunes,
But when I swear, it is irrevocable.
Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers;
When your sweet self was got.
And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.
It becomes thy oath full well,
The noise is round about us.
Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
Should, if a coward heard her speak these words,
That hath thrown down so many enemies,
'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
Take up this good old man, and cheer the heart
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,
And then, to dry them, gavest the duke a clout
Then is there mirth in heaven,
But owe thy pride thyself.
Well, go with me and be not so discomfited:
I never saw before. Great-bellied women,
see him a man.
Your high displeasure: all this uttered
Forbear sharp speeches to her: she's a lady
Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
Ay, and the best she shall have; and my favour
Now is it Rome indeed and room enough,
Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
Here's yet some liquor left.
To honour Helen and to be her knight!
From cold and empty veins, where no blood dwells;
That he would steal away so guilty-like,
Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
For I must tell you friendly in your ear,
You must be father to your brother's daughter
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
Captain Fluellen, you must come presently to the
Nay, but hear me:
You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
break, your gaskins fall.
Which he did end all his; and took some pride
She gives the DUCHESS a box on the ear
I must love you, and sue to know you better.
In workmanship and value; which I wonder'd
Exeunt
[Reads]
Consider, sir, the chance of war: the day
Yet one word more: grief boundeth where it falls,
Whose wisdom hath her fortune conquered:
I am not Cinna the conspirator.
No child but Hero; she's his only heir.
Most excellent accomplished lady, the heavens rain
That opportunity
I have it not about me.
For one his like, there would be something failing
Brass, cur!
leg,--to what form but that he is, should wit larded
To fierce and bloody inclination.
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
To measure out my length on this cold bed.
EPILOGUE
Enter BUCKINGHAM
Unwilling to outlive the good that did it;
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Madam, have comfort: all of us have cause
should flout him, if he writ to me; yea, though I
Faith, none, but Humphrey Hour, that call'd
Sings
Exeunt all but ANTONY
Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
My hand shall go.
Enter LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HERMIA, and HELENA
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
The best of happiness,
Enjoy thy plainness,
This coronet part betwixt you.
spitting or saying we are hoarse, which are the only
To make her speak as move.
had four quarrels, and like to have fought one.
The passages of alleys, creeks and narrow lands;
Your sovereign greatness and authority.
For Pyramus therein doth kill himself.
She took the ring of me: I'll none of it.
That life is better life, past fearing death,
Did you such a thing?
England and France might, through their amity,
And the will dotes that is attributive
Exeunt MACBETH and LENNOX
If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly:
Almost each pang a death.
The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes,
Enter PAROLLES
could have seen 't, the woe had been universal.
Show him your hand.
I tell you true: best you safed the bringer
sailor breaks a biscuit.
Menas, I'll not on shore.
And warriors faint! why, 'twere perpetual shame.
And am well studied for a liberal thanks
kind and natural; with him, the portion and sinew of
though I had never so good means, as desire, to make
Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me.
O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
Let me wipe it first; it smells of mortality.
Traitor! how now!
No vast obscurity or misty vale,
And we be lords and rulers over Rouen;
If I should pay you for't as 'tis extoll'd,
Her worth, being mounted on the wind,
Here are your sons again; and I must lose
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
That made me happy at one stroke has taken
Vincetino come of Bentivolii.
You take much pains to mend.
Wherein I thee endow'd.
My royal father, cheer these noble lords
No more of this; it does offend my heart:
I leave myself, my friends and all, for love.
For though he seem with forged quaint conceit
little intoxicates in his prains, did, in his ales and
Have, for the gilt of France,--O guilt indeed!
With letters of entreaty, which imported
To RICHMOND
And set thy diadem upon my head;
What I can show in this.
I lost a couple, that 'twixt heaven and earth
le Grand; which holy undertaking with most austere
Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
An if your highness knew my heart, you were.
What make you from home?
It shall become thee well to act my woes;
I am his first-born son, that was the last
house is better than this rain-water out o' door.
They told me that your name was Fontibell.
Well, give her that ring and therewithal
Lie where the light foam the sea may beat
Enter EXTON and Servants, armed
joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy mother,
Stands not within the prospect of belief,
To show how costly summer was at hand,
His life I gave him and did thereto add
unkindest tied that ever any man tied.
With drink, sir?
Nay, come, Kate, come; you must not look so sour.
All Kent hath yielded; nothing there holds out
Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA and CORIN
An I do not,--
And stops he now for breath?
Is the fair hand that writ.
That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children:
Master constable,--
With him;
My drown'd queen's name, as in the rest you said
You, that are king, though he do wear the crown,
Exit
Do you hear, Cassio?
Is that lead slow which is fired from a gun?
He sends this bloody napkin. Are you he?
'Tis south the city mills--bring me word thither
ACT III
Love! ay, that it shall, i' faith.
This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him.
Stands aside
Long live Gonzalo!
Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood!
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that,
belongs to't. Ask me if I am a courtier: it shall
Outworths a noble's blood.
My lord?
He was my friend, faithful and just to me:
I will be satisfied: deny me this,
Have tongue to charge me with.
Here's neither bush nor shrub, to bear off
O Titus, see, O, see what thou hast done!
I am content to look on: what to speak,
bots, swayed in the back and shoulder-shotten;
coxcomb? in your own conscience, now?
cats and blind puppies. I have professed me thy
Marry that will, I live and die a maid:
My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice;
Exit
E'en so, my lord.
her.
Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
never had any; or if he had, he had sworn it away
Speak, Queen of Goths, dost thou applaud my choice?
Some entertainment for them in their tents.
operation of your sun: so is your crocodile.
With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise:
Come, my lord, and in our flight
Is this Menenius?
I cannot be offended with my trade. Please you to name it.
And since your coming hither have done enough
The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords
If thus thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world
to comfort me.
Against my lady's kingdom: 'tis enough
Which art my near'st and dearest enemy?
Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth,
[Aside]  Amen; and make me die a good old man!
There is some sap in this.
Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices,
He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Thy master now lies thinking in his bed
I rather think
That waits upon your grace?
His speech, was like a tangled chain; nothing
No more of stay! to-morrow thou must go.
Must know and own; this thing of darkness!
Your use and counsel, we shall send for you.
Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart
To-morrow all for speeding do their best.
There's no art
And let us to the Tiger all to dinner,
[Reads]  'Imprimis, it is agreed between the French
Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the
And yet the fire of life kindle again
For that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk,
Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe,
But in the loss of question,--that you, his sister,
Your brother is to die.
And marry sweet Bianca with consent.
He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
And if she did play false, the fault was hers;
nor the courtier's, which is proud, nor the
Exeunt
That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
As jewels lose their glory if neglected,
He's all my exercise, my mirth, my matter,
None in the world: you did mistake him, sure.
Enter CORIN and SILVIUS
Such hideous cries, that with the very noise
And do not call them bastards.
Let not your hate encounter with my love
You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?
Enter a Herald
And, like a mountain cedar, reach his branches
as if you would drive me into a toil?
That I came with no ill intent; for to me
Do breed love's settled passions in my heart:
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
The Prince of Wales stepp'd forth before the king,
Ghost unlaid forbear thee!
Pedant looks out of the window
especially to know himself.
A human shape.
O, these are barren tasks, too hard to keep,
They would not pity me, yet plead I must;
To him that, for your honour and your state,
As huge as high Olympus.
Divide themselves between you!
They say that Love hath not an eye at all.
Exeunt TROILUS and CRESSIDA
But let's about it.
If they do speak our language, 'tis our will:
Look'd wondering each at other.
That's too long for a play.
Such as were grown to credit by the wars;
How fares your grace?
Flourish
Whether dost thou profess thyself, a knave or a fool?
With accusations, as I hear, more strong
More a little, and then dumb.
SCENE I. Westminster Abbey.
Poor painted queen, vain flourish of my fortune!
She would not lose it: her attendants are
And says a wizard told him that by G
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
'Tis I must make conclusion
Of greater time than I shall show to be.
If not Achilles, sir,
Thou ominous and fearful owl of death,
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
And in his full and ripen'd years himself,
I tremble stiff with fear: but if there be
Whom I would imitate: consumption catch thee!
Yes.
Enter PHILOTUS
Yea, get the better of them. What's to do?
Well thought on: take my sword,
To pry into the secrets of the state;
I will marry you, if ever I marry woman, and I'll be
Will bear up with this exercise, so long
In likeness of a new untrimmed bride.
Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke!
And justly and religiously unfold
Because Cassandra's mad: her brain-sick raptures
You look but on the outside of this work.
All that may men approve or men detect!
Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some.
What, canst not rule her?
gentleman; whom I commend to you as a noble friend
Enter GREEN
With pomp, with triumph and with revelling.
'B mi,' Bianca, take him for thy lord,
I think his understanding is bereft.
I return; nay, I bear it on my shoulders, as a
Be counterpoised with such a petty sum!
But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!
What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
'Ad Martem,' that's for myself:
Thy grandam loves thee; and thy uncle will
A tomb, wherein his corpse shall be interr'd:
Of pellmell havoc and confusion.
Enter DULL, COSTARD, and JAQUENETTA
My lord?
See, then, thou fight'st against thy countrymen
Where honourable rescue and defence
So many hours must I tend my flock;
Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
And heaven defend your good souls, that you think
Mine, and most of our fortunes, to-night, shall
In such gross kind?
Lest in revenge thereof, sith God is just,
By him imprinted and within his power
A deep repentance: nothing in his life
Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see
I humbly take my leave.
Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores
presently.
And bring all Cyprus comfort!
sore with shooting.
Re-enter EMILIA with IAGO
Indeed, he is so: I repent me much
Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I called thee?
Blow me about in winds! roast me in sulphur!
Enter AGAMEMNON, AJAX, MENELAUS, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and others, marching. Shouts within
How now, Abhorson? what's the news with you?
Go forward and be choked with thy ambition!
It is not so with Him that all things knows
Give me the paper; let me read the same;
The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon!
I now beseech you, for your daughter's sake,
you must be watched ere you be made tame, must you?
I will wait on him, fair Mistress Anne.
The younger then is free and not before.
The clerk of Chatham: he can write and read and
That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise?
My men should call me 'lord:' I am your goodman.
true: my name is Nym and Falstaff loves your wife.
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
give enlargement to the swain, bring him festinately
With hey, ho,  and c.
As war were hoodwink'd.
Now, trust me, 'tis an office of great worth
The happiest gift that ever marquess gave,
Either for her stay or going: the affair cries haste,
Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head
Stay, madam; I must speak a word with you.
Who is, if every owner were well placed,
To bring him to the haven; left these notes
Claudio--whose estimation do you mightily hold
dry basting.
And we will mend thy wages. I like this place.
ACT V
'Twas not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket.
Ah, heavens, it is a most pathetical nit!
Lord Douglas, go you and tell him so.
the utmost of your having: back.
take me from this world with treachery and devise
Vex not his prescience; be attentive.
But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
The enemy flying.
And that we are contented Caesar shall
As well as Lewis of France, or the Earl of Warwick,
She is cunning past man's thought.
As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros,
Nay, hear you, Kate: in sooth you scape not so.
Therefore I part with him, and part with him
throat to cut. An I had been a man of any
Russian bear and have their heads crushed like
I am at your grace's pleasure.
When he looks out in an ungrateful shape!--
Where do you dwell?
No, no;
My hand is ready; may it do him ease.
And in the porches of my ears did pour
As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,
O Lymoges! O Austria! thou dost shame
Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe:
Would we had all such wives, that the men might go
Farewell, my coz.
Ah, ah!
tooth-ache: but a man that were to sleep your
Welcome him then according to his worth.
Sir, my liege,
Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
I do not sue to stand;
Because his purpose is not executed.
Like perspectives, which rightly gazed upon
Should leave the helm and like a fearful lad
Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,
Should not in this best garden of the world
O, that must be
By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world: I will
There's none stands under more calumnious tongues
Your mistress bears well.
Pleased fortune does of Marcus Crassus' death
horses ran away, how her bridle was burst, how I
What doth befall you here. So, fare you well;
You taking airs, with lameness!
Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,
I feel my heart new open'd. O, how wretched
Help, friends below; let's draw him hither.
Here, madam:
Enter COUNTESS and Steward
Than the soft myrtle: but man, proud man,
Most notedly, sir.
other men's; then, to have seen much and to have
With thy most operant poison! What is here?
Bid her send me presently a thousand pound:
Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter.
For who hates honour hates the gods above.
choose but fall by pailfuls. What have we
Where death's approach is seen so terrible!
Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome,
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
And I have horse will follow where the game
to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be,
No, my lord, not I.
Besides the things that we have heard and seen,
To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
Enter ISABELLA and FRANCISCA
Whose limbs were made in England, show us here
Now, most noble Brutus,
And citizens to their dens: the death of Antony
He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo,
carriage, for he carried the town-gates on his back
Could he get me? Sir Robert could not do it:
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
The music of the spheres! List, my Marina.
they would have hanged him: and I pray God his bad
Give so much light that I may read by them.
And in a vision full of majesty
Alarum. Retreat. Excursions. Exeunt
Thou art the rudeliest welcome to this world
Apt, liable to be employ'd in danger,
So he dissolved, and showers of oaths did melt.
mouth too.
O, if I thought that I'ld beat him like a dog!
thy master's father, Vincentio?
what we may be. God be at your table!
I am joyful
Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee;
Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? where is Bagot?
Enter CANIDIUS
Or touch of her good person?
and it shall be said so again while Stephano
Till you compound whose right is worthiest,
Sir Toby to look to me! This concurs directly with
More fiery by night's blackness; hereditary,
Yes, he is worthy of thee, and to pay thee for thy
But say, what to thine old news?
She carry armour as she hath begun.
Cry the man mercy; love him; take his offer:
Royal Antiochus--on what cause I know not--
As for the Duke of York, this late complaint
As they have given these hairs their liberty!'
Ay, sir.
Hang there like a fruit, my soul,
three umpires in this matter, as I understand; that
That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.
That shall make answer to such questions
It is a fery discretion answer; save the fall is in
What will you give us?
This priest has no pride in him?
I lose myself: better I were not yours
O, look, sir, look, sir! here is more of us:
To counterfeit oppression of such grief
Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success: some
Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,
Of many in the army: many years,
I am ashamed I did yield to them.
Thou sayest true: 'tis not our bringing up of poor
which now shall die in oblivion and thou return
What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge?
Is troth-plight to your daughter. Good Paulina,
A fellow of the royal bed, which owe
By what did here befal me. Your wife and brother
By lack of stooping,--
A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.
Drew to defend him when he was beset:
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
lying asleep.
O Doricles,
These four will change habits, and present the other five.
Think not on him till to-morrow:
Stuck with cloves.
Guards seize BERTRAM
I still pour in the waters of my love
Who's that, I pray thee?
I would assay, proud queen, to make thee blush.
Great shouts within and all cry 'The mean knight!'
Flourish. The King and his train enter the town
done this day. I have paid Percy, I have made him sure.
Yea, forsooth, an your mistership be emperial.
How would he look, to see his work so noble
Well, cousin. I told you a thing yesterday; think on't.
To tell him that his sword can never win
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek.
That our French gallants shall to-day draw out,
Sits safe and still without him.
And this deceit loses the name of craft,
Passing these flats, are taken by the tide;
And I was trimm'd in Madam Julia's gown,
Will o'er some high-viced city hang his poison
Are not these large enough?
Re-enter BERTRAM, guarded
heart cannot come by her; in heart you love her,
Exit. Knocking within
And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
There is a lord will hear you play to-night:
Suspicion of the deed.
Hold, hurt him not, for God's sake! he is mad.
Which make a sound, but kill'd are wonder'd at.
And then to Rome. Come, Dolabella, see
Nor I neither by this heavenly light;
Good reverend father, make my person yours,
Thy state is taken for a joined-stool, thy golden
Do but mistake.
On, Myrmidons, and cry you all amain,
No funeral rite, nor man m mourning weeds,
than my noble and natural person together with the
Thy gory locks at me.
SCENE VI. Windsor castle.
third--borough.
With profits of the mind, study and fast.
Till the tree die!
But stay a while: what company is this?
By so much is the wonder in extremes.
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place;
O, ay, make up that: he is now at a cold scent.
He's loving and most gracious: 'twill be much
Exeunt VALENTINE and PROTEUS
Seven times tried that judgment is,
Are come to play a pleasant comedy;
I would attach you all and make you stoop
gentle; and one that is your friend, I can tell you
I give him you, the noblest that survives,
By welkin and her star!
ACT III
To reach at victory above my head,
With due observance of thy godlike seat,
And your great flow of debts. My loved lord,
Of fighting men they have full three score thousand.
In being so blest! There may be in the cup
And such a want-wit sadness makes of me,
Yet once again, to make us public sport,
Of murder's arms: this is the bloodiest shame,
Before we enter his forbidden gates,
Like monsters of the deep.
Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
Here comes that which grows to the stalk; never
Your lord, I mean--laughs from's free lungs, cries 'O,
He cannot but with measure fit the honours
they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign.
There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
Your answer to that.
prithee, be gone.
The frame and huge foundation of the earth
And give him burial in his father's grave:
How now? moody?
What say you to a neat's foot?
Away, my lord, away!
Marry, this: Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March.
For taking bribes here of the Sardians;
After my death I wish no other herald,
First, heaven be the record to my speech!
Stay; come not in.
The dibble in earth to set one slip of them;
To know the reason of this strange restraint.
By the northern blasts twice o'er.
What pain it cost, what danger. God's!
For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony,
Exit Guardsman
Fear not, Cesario; take thy fortunes up;
though I say it, though old man, yet poor man, my father.
quit. O, the charity of a penny cord! It sums up
The hum of either army stilly sounds,
What are you made of? you'll nor fight nor fly:
Where is the duke my father with his power?
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
Which parted from you?
Uncle of Winchester, I pray, read on.
Out, insolent! thy bastard shall be king,
Look what I have.
Nor I in yours
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
He should, for that, commit your godfathers:
What sights, my lord?
As may compact it more. Get you gone;
Enter CLIFFORD
Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live.
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us,
Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven:
That copest with death himself to scape from it:
Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
He shall have every day a several greeting,
Romans, do me right:
way of waste, attempt us again.
My blood hath been too cold and temperate,
Death makes no conquest of this conqueror;
brains! for,--here he comes,--one of thy kin has a
I do beseech you send for some of them.
become the function well, nor lean enough to be
Stay, Edward.
But ere they came,--O, let me say no more!
ACT IV
the--No; I know it begins with some other
His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his
Exit
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
But bootless is your sight: he will not speak To any.
down, obey him: quickly, dispatch.
I pray you, sir,
Brutus is wise, and, were he not in health,
That we have better men. But, hit or miss,
Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat
My father dead, my fortune lives for me;
At least into a jealousy so strong
And of opposed natures.
And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet:
A right good husband, let him be a noble
so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Thither, gentle mariner.
Now, welcome, Kate: and bear me witness all,
'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
her education promises; her dispositions she
Led hither by pure love: which of them both
to notify that her husband will be absence from his
And when the cross blue lightning seem'd to open
I must advance the colours of my love
Make boot upon the summer's velvet buds,
Him he knew well, and guess'd that it was she,
If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!
Vouchsafe, at our request, to stand aside,
Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,
And curbs himself even of his natural scope
So criminal and in such capital kind,
Nothing, neither way.
Take away these chalices. Go brew me a pottle of
Which pries not to the interior, but, like the martlet,
West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom:
I would not understand it.
Or felt that pain which I did for him once,
Stoop low within those bounds we have o'erlook'd
The noble house o' the Marcians, from whence came
Of him, sir.
of your office, to be no true man; and, for such
eyes; there shall she see my valour, which will then
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
Aside
And meet i' the hall together.
My Oberon! what visions have I seen!
curs; throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.
Tendering my person's safety, hath appointed
'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant: when I
Marry, so it doth appear
We shall to London get, where you are loved
Bid them prepare within:
that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
attends your ladyship's pleasure.
They are not such as you.
Enter PUCK
Enter a Messenger
but that they call compliment is like the encounter
Laugh at me, make their pastime at my sorrow:
To show his teeth as white as whale's bone;
Flourish
Mine honour's ensigns humbled at thy feet.
When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief:
Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
morris-pike.
And we, I hope, sir, are no murderers.
Colour her working with such deadly wounds;
The plague of Greece upon thee, thou mongrel
That tide will stay me longer than I should.
Draw together;
How proud, how peremptory, and unlike himself?
not me, nor I him: he hath neither Latin, French,
ne'er have use for 'em, and would most resemble
If I thou protector of this damned strumpet--
O hound of Crete, think'st thou my spouse to get?
The day is ours, the bloody dog is dead.
Have a tongue to doom my brother's death,
Singing
Therefore at last I firmly am resolved
Not till God make men of some other metal than
Thou art true and honest; ingeniously I speak.
Enter OLIVIA with MALVOLIO
As well possess'd; my love is more than his;
Exeunt
Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
Before we parted. I have made bold, Iago,
Beat on a crown, the treasure of thy heart;
the very wrath of love and they will together; clubs
[Aside]  I'll no more drumming; a plague of all
almost chide God for making you that countenance you
Exit PRINCE HENRY
Unmeritable shuns your high request.
Melodious birds sing madrigals--
For such is a friend now; treacherous man!
He was brought to this
But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so.
And thrown into the sea. But I'll see further:
I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
Clap round fines for neglect: ye are lazy knaves;
A woful Cressid 'mongst the merry Greeks!
Wholly, sir.
And such a daughter,
Enter Surveyor
Exeunt
fence with his own shadow: if I should marry him, I
Say that I did all this for love of her.
None, but your beauty: would that fault were mine!
Things growing are not ripe until their season
Sirrah, thy lord I honour as he is.
Enter HENRY PERCY, and the BISHOP OF CARLISLE
No, prelate; such is thy audacious wickedness,
Well, madam.
that may not sully the chariness of our honesty. O,
If imputation and strong circumstances,
Now show yourselves men; 'tis for liberty.
The inaudible and noiseless foot of Time
God and good angel fight on Richmond's side;
DON
pregnant and unforced position--who stands so
Takes his keys
On abjects, orts and imitations,
'Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.
I'll not be there.
Be unto us as is a nurse's song
To DIANA
Professes to persuade,--the king his son's alive,
A gentleman.
Or hedge aside from the direct forthright,
DON
But no trace of him.
Thou, being a king, blest with a goodly son,
Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.
His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights,
In the true course of all the question.
Take pity of your town and of your people,
Return me, as Cominius is return'd,
to prison! lay bolts enough upon him: let him
Whereby my son is disinherited.
But she's best married that dies married young.
Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of
Possess them not with fear; take from them now
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,
Now, darting Parthia, art thou struck; and now
Exit
Go home with it and please your wife withal;
Hear it not, Duncan; for it is a knell
I'll give thee armour to keep off that word:
The harder match'd, the greater victory:
Blame both my lord and me, that we have taken
Exeunt Knights
That all those eyes adored them ere their fall
Enter POMPEY
Ay. Desdemona.
To fair Bianca, so beloved of me.
And much I need to help you, if need were;
But riches fineless is as poor as winter
in music and mathematics: his name is Cambio; pray,
Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life; you coin'd it:
Good Laertes,
wind were down, I could drive the boat with my sighs.
Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested, saw
Then take my soul, my body, soul and all,
this year connive at us, and we may do any thing
'Tis strange my Theseus, that these
Is he not able to discharge the money?
But you must not now slumber in it.
Exeunt
Speak low, if you speak love.
Did will what he did spend and spent not that
Hector, then 'tis wars.
Smile you my speeches, as I were a fool?
How soon this mightiness meets misery:
Enter a Servant
Of hair-breadth scapes i' the imminent deadly breach,
becomes you; for, out of question, you were born in
You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
Indian. Legged like a man and his fins like
To keep your earthly audit: sure, in that
No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
What sneaking fellow comes yonder?
And bloody steel grasp'd in their ireful hands,
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
Like Caesar's sister: the wife of Antony
I'll fight with none but thee; for I do hate thee
Our grandam earth, having this distemperature,
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
Exit
Truly, thou art damned like an ill-roasted egg, all
But in this kind, wanting your father's voice,
Why, then, we kill all our women:
That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her
And try the argument of hearts by borrowing,
To throw a perfume on the violet,
With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Goblin, lead them up and down.
What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of
My lord, 'tis nothing.
was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much
Enter HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, and Ladies
This enemy town. I'll enter: if he slay me,
appears much joy in him; even so much that joy could
Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;
your old virginity, is like one of our French
You had not found me here so musical:
I would we could do so, for her benefits are
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
The sway, revenue, execution of the rest,
Who thrives and who declines; side factions
That done, conduct him to the drunkard's chamber;
To draw conditions of a friendly peace;
Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
My lord!
In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice;
known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
Thy head, all indirectly, gave direction:
Believe me, this may be: he promised to meet me two
Enter KING HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, the EARL of WESTMORELAND, SIR WALTER BLUNT, and others
And Henry born at Windsor lose all:
It waves you to a more removed ground:
And to suppose her chaste! No, let me know;
That the malevolence of fortune nothing
Will render you no remedy, this ring
doer of this, and he is to be thanked.
Reads
I'll buy him of you.
And, by despairing, shouldst thou stand excused;
Fair sir, you are well o'erta'en
His sceptre shows the force of temporal power,
Comes this way to the melancholy vale,
O, that she knew she were!
And never live but true unto his liege!
A very pleasing night to honest men.
No devil will fright thee then so much as she.
This 'once again,' but that your highness pleased,
is, sure, possessed, madam.
Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd,
tongue shakes out his master's undoing: to say
Me to proclaim the truth; and I am come,
I shall recount hereafter; for this present,
Through it do well, I do not relish well
Marry, this is the short and the long of it; you
Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest;
art piled, for a French velvet. Do I speak
Come, Proteus; 'tis your penance but to hear
Must die to-morrow! O injurious love,
That Henry liveth still: but were he dead,
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
doing eternal: for doing I am past: as I will by
And groaning underneath this age's yoke,
But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
Fortune speed us!
Who wears no honesty. Such smiling rogues as these,
How now! is Jack Cade slain?
Give me my nightly wearing, and adieu:
rather than hold three words' conference with this
Like a great sea-mark, standing every flaw,
Good reasons must, of force, give place to better.
He cannot want the best
Virgins on each side; CERIMON and other Inhabitants
What are you then determined to do?
Therefore I say with noble Buckingham,
The heaviness and guilt within my bosom
'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
though they be long ere they are wooed, they are
that hath abundance of charge too, God knows what.
At Stony-Stratford will they be to-night:
Titinius' face is upward.
Flourish. Exeunt
The nature of it? in what kind, let's know,
Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,
It is too late: the life of all his blood
For so he will'd it.
Thou madst thine enemies shake, as if the world
Send her a story of thy noble acts;
your pardon;
To North
And hath abatements and delays as many
Her heart is but o'ercharged; she will recover:
The picture that is hanging in your chamber;
And golden Phoebus never be beheld
Why, my boy?
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
Of whom he's chief, with all the size that verity
He set up his bills here in Messina and challenged
Or scant our former having in despite;
Barely in title, not in revenue.
And be inheritor of thy desire.
How! I inform them!
And generally, whoever the king favours,
Exeunt
With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd,
I was not much afeard; for once or twice
If you be she, I do entreat your patience
As fat as tame things: one good deed dying tongueless
The sweet degrees that this brief world affords
Each minute teems a new one.
Mine honour for his truth: who being so heighten'd,
you, and their daughters profit very greatly under
As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what:
your ear, she's as fartuous a civil modest wife, and
Against the undivulged pretence I fight
I would have him nine years a-killing.
Go to: where lodges he?
Stuck in my throat.
I'll fill your grave up: stir, nay, come away,
Wake and find nothing. But, alas, I swerve:
Her sweet perfections with one self king!
I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether
Because my poor child is a prisoner.
And a good soldier to a lady: but what is he to a lord?
Robs the vast sea: the moon's an arrant thief,
I go. Write to me very shortly.
love with him.
De elbow.
Set your heart at rest:
The starry welkin cover thou anon
O diable, diable! vat is in my closet? Villain! larron!
Fashion'd to Beatrice.
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
he hath wronged his honour in marrying the renowned
SCENE I. Padua. Before LUCENTIO'S house.
And threw the sops all in the sexton's face;
inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles, for every
And maidens call it love-in-idleness.
thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll offend
Alarum. Excursions. Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too;
That honour saved may upon asking give?
He will not know what all but he do know:
to-day, that your niece Beatrice was in love with
Were still at odds, being but three.
By his own interdiction stands accursed,
Enter MARGARET JOURDAIN, HUME, SOUTHWELL, and BOLINGBROKE
But God sort all! You are welcome home, my lord.
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
Slept in his face and render'd such aspect
Thine, Claudio; thine, I say.
To the Welsh lady's bed.
Not yet! no dance! Thus change I like the moon.
Therefore, have done: some grief shows much of love;
winds and waters sighs and tears; they are greater
Exit BALTHASAR
His beastly mind to us, he hath a court
They shall be apprehended by and by.
Tremble and start at wagging of a straw,
To buy and sell with groats, to show bare heads
Yet it shall be tempest-tost.
Of this escape and whither they are bound;
They tax our policy, and call it cowardice,
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
Which made me down to throw my books, and fly--
How does he, sirrah?
The empress' sons, I take them, Chiron and Demetrius.
Well, sir, get you in: I will not long be troubled
where our fate,
Do you uphold and maintain in your speeches,
conclusion is victory: on whose side? the king's.
Sir, I thank you.
Mean time let this defend my loyalty,
We, as the spring of all, shall pay for all.
Rain sacrificial whisperings in his ear,
No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that
money presently. Wife, take her in; instruct her
Enter LAVINIA
guides him should aid him, I will search
And therefore are they very dangerous.
I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him.
brief and the tedious of it; and he's of a most
I'll attend your lordship.
Neither.
Even with such life of majesty, warm life,
I would thou hadst done so by Claudio.
but that a wise burgher put in for them.
That Maine which by main force Warwick did win,
The fig of Spain!
For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
But is not this braver? Let them kiss one another,
I had fear'd death, of all the men i' the world
Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years,
Perform what you command us.
broke bread; but God is to be worshipped; all men
But for my duty to your ladyship.
Than to be pitied of thee. Prithee, bring me
Will, hand in hand, all headlong cast us down.
Not willing any longer conference,
Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,
Flourish. Exeunt
And is that paper nothing?
Seats her by him
I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.
Because she was enforced, stain'd, and deflower'd?
Think of me as you please. I leave my duty a little
What in the world should make me now deceive,
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter than
great a prince as you are.
Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security,
Enter GARDINER, Bishop of Winchester, a Page with a torch before him, met by LOVELL
To some ears unrecounted. But, my lords,
Under the conduct of bold Iachimo,
A freckled whelp hag-born--not honour'd with
And see the noble ruin'd man you speak of.
Have skipp'd from sixteen years of age to sixty,
[Aside to MISTRESS FORD]  Heard you that?
In nature is a tyranny; it hath been
But longer did we not retain much hope;
Tie up my love's tongue bring him silently.
Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.
That's as much as to say, they are fools that marry:
Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp;
A Norman was't?
A royal lady, spake one the least word that might
But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me: I
I would not speak. I pray you, spare me: 'faith,
Either death or you I'll find immediately.
Because she is something lower than myself,
On my life, my lord, a bubble.
See where they come: we will behold his death.
'Help, ho! they murder Caesar!' Who's within?
Your dicipline in war, wisdom in peace,
yet to do; and here, where you are, they are coming
In the base court? Come down? Down, court!
Not so well apparell'd
empty it in the muddy ditch close by the Thames side.
If from this presence thou darest go with me.
For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl.
Escalus.
towards him? I will make your peace with him if I
of letter did.
Being thereto not compell'd.
Now, like to whelps, we crying run away.
For she had eyes, and chose me. No, Iago;
'Tis gone.
And with the clamour keep her still awake.
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
Shall sweet lord, be bound to you so much,
Exeunt
Tell me, good fellow, camest thou here by chance,
I would kiss before I spoke.
We were never so much out of creatures. We have but
My father gave my mother.
Which I dispersed, they all have met again
Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
Why have you suffer'd me to be imprison'd,
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
And where two raging fires meet together
why, that's nothing; an he begin once, he'll rail in
bear, yet he is oft led by the nose with gold: show
Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer,
Are stol'n away and fled; which puts upon them
monster, or my standard.
Come, Lucius, come; stay not to talk with them.
So it should be, that none but Antony
The last fit of my greatness,--good your graces,
My queen and son are gone to France for aid;
friar. But no more of this. Canst thou tell if
Stamps
May they not be my oracles as well,
Yes, if I make my play.
I mock you! no, by heaven.
No, no, no, no, no.
My best beloved and approved friend,
What instance of the contrary?
Though wayward fortune did malign my state,
Enter, on one side, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before; on the other, ELBOW, and Officers with POMPEY
This is strange now: do you two know how you are
saddle. Yet you must be saying, Marcius is proud;
So doth the greater glory dim the less:
Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;
Yet have I left a daughter.
been as proper?
Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act
The ingratitude of this Seleucus does
My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
Exeunt
She died, my lord, but whiles her slander lived.
Lord Buckingham, methinks, you watch'd her well:
Wanting his manage; and they will almost
an into their estimation and report: but he hath so
SCENE VI. London. The Tower.
Shall drop their blood in approbation
And let ourselves again but understand,
Enter CLARENCE, guarded, and BRAKENBURY
And thereof comes the proverb: 'Blessing of your
The pale-faced moon looks bloody on the earth
In vain thou speak'st, poor boy; my father's blood
Who saw Cesario, ho?
Where our scenes seem to live. I do beseech you
And let my grave-stone be your oracle.
I weigh'd the danger which my realms stood in
Marcius would have all from you; Marcius,
Which way is he, in the name of sanctity? If all
Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep;
Go to, go to;
Of Brabant and of Orleans, shall make forth,
As often as I guess'd.
We cannot get from him.
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
I mean thou shalt, we'll bar thee from succession;
So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece
And sent the ragged soldiers wounded home.
When, by and by, the din of war gan pierce
Enter SERVILIUS
the dukes fall upon the king.
Which thou owedst yesterday.
Consort with me in loud and dear petition,
Which did incorporate and make us one,
And evils imminent; and on her knee
From her inaidible estate; I say we must not
Look to your wife; observe her well with Cassio;
not very well: nay, I think it is scurvy, and begin
do; and they with continual action are even as good as rotten.
through Frogmore: I will bring thee where Mistress
If!
For heaven now bids me; and the words I utter
Madam, you'll find it so. You wrong your virtues
O, for my beads! I cross me for a sinner.
Good night, sir.
Herein misled by your suggestion.
Directly.
study three years in two words, the dancing horse
Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
favouring the first complaint; hasty and tinder-like
out of his swaddling-clouts.
Enter AENEAS
the Count Claudio alone: tell them that you know
house between ten and eleven.
blowers up! Is there no military policy, how
I think there is not in the world either malice or
I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
Who woo'd in haste and means to wed at leisure.
Between whose endless jar justice resides,
henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good
If you dare not trust that you see, confess not
You are of our chamber, and our mind partakes
Enter two Keepers, with cross-bows in their hands
Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.
That dwell in every region of his face;
Madam, they are not yet;
More valour in me than my habits show.
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
in the parliament for the putting down of men. How
And his to me:
In what thou hadst to say: so, with good life
Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou,
La fin couronne les oeuvres.
Fall deep in love with thee; and her great charms
To fool their preparation, and to conquer
Three lads of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits,
After some respite will return to Calais;
If there be rule in unity itself,
Lysander riddles very prettily:
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
A thing slipp'd idly from me.
Shall we their fond pageant see?
To lock up honesty and honour from
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'tis a match.
swoon when he showed me your handkerchief?
To him that did but yesterday suspire,
Recall not what we give, and therein may
Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which
How now, my lord!
ACT III
Either there is a civil strife in heaven,
By circumstance, to curse thy cursed self.
never bring them to light: would he were returned!
These lords are visited; you are not free,
He, he; I can never hit on's name. There is such a
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
In a disguise of love:
I saw him fumble with the sheets and play with
canon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but loose
Only to stick it in their children's sight
And then I told you true: and yet, dear lady,
Be not amazed; right noble is his blood.
That Falstaff at that oak shall meet with us.
Know of your youth, examine well your blood,
Fair leave and large security. How may
While they have told their money and let out
With telling me of the mouldwarp and the ant,
If he can carry't thus!
For my part, I may speak it to my shame,
Who for Bohemia bend, to signify
From whose so many weights of baseness cannot
By fair or foul means we must enter in,
Of full three thousand ducats. What of that?
ANTIPHOLUS
We need no grave to bury honesty:
unseasonably. He was furnished like a hunter.
majesty's name, apprehend him: he's a friend of the
Now, by my George, my garter, and my crown,--
Did violate so itself.
Which to the high top-gallant of my joy
the feast,--
Here.
so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning. So, so, so.
But doubt discovery there. Will you grant with me
Therefore you speak unskilfully: or if your
My honest grief unto him; and, as my lord,
Ay, sir; well, well.
He that flies so will ne'er return again.
I will not hear her speak; away with her!
forward already? What a pagan rascal is this! an
That have been so bedazzled with the sun
Neglect him not; make use now, and provide
To put on better ere he go to church.
But set his murdering knife unto the root
And kept his credit with his purse,
I cry your worship's mercy, heartily: I beseech your
I, madam.
see thee again.
Who, in your thoughts, merits fair Helen best,
One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part;
If you suppose as fearing you it shook.
Till Lionel's issue fails, his should not reign:
For him was I exchanged and ransomed.
I do not much dislike the matter, but
Let it fall rather, though the fork invade
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
My Lord Sands.
Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock;
Hail, all you state of Greece! what shall be done
For they account his head upon the bridge.
DON
He is not guilty of her coming hither.
Yea, curse his better angel from his side,
All in Bohemia's well; this satisfaction
That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
Till now you have gone on and fill'd the time
The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse,--
Call on him for't: but to confound such time,
Their services to Lord Timon: his large fortune
What a long night is this! I will not change my
The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
Yes, lord, her father is a king,
His dignity and duty both cast off--
and make him my waiting-gentlewoman? He that hath a
Imagine Pericles arrived at Tyre,
in the world but lie, and lie in my throat. By
What sayest thou, Jack?
And now there rests no other shift but this;
As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way
'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
And he will fill thy wishes to the brim
What promise, chuck?
If sorrow can admit society,
Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark,
Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound;
Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his
Take that of me, my friend, who have the power
Or I, whate'er it be,
Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
As fat as butter.
To see the wonders of the world abroad,
Be of good comfort, prince; for you are born
Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee: there's
A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
Which can as well inflame as it can kill.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MECAENAS
Here stands my other son, a banished man,
What is amiss plague and infection mend!
This but done,
What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say.
matter? why weepest thou, man? Away, ass! You'll
I have said.
of a leg, and have not money enough in the end to
Do not believe him. O, behold this ring,
Know him I shall, I am well sure of it:
for a great praise: only this commendation I can
A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,
Did you ever cure any so?
His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last,
And a petition granted them, a strange one--
Come, kiss; and let us part.
Take thrice thy money; bid me tear the bond.
worth the nineth part of a sparrow. This lord,
Fail not our feast.
And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,
me now, thou naughty varlet, tell me, where hast
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
Exeunt KING LEAR, GLOUCESTER, KENT, and Fool
Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
Exit
To hide your doings; and to silence that,
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
Welcome, Sir Diomed! here is the lady
You've said, sir. We looked not for Mark Antony
To have nor eyes nor ears nor thought, then say
Look not upon me, for thine eyes are wounding:
The roofs of palaces, and nature prompts them
They fell together all, as by consent;
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
Lay negligent and loose regard upon him:
What was thy mother's name? tell me but that,
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
Hearing you were retired, your friends fall'n off,
think but, in the end, the villainies of man will
What, man! ne'er pull your hat upon your brows;
He will suspect us still and find a time
honour, who hath made this match, and his friend's
And, as I earnestly did fix mine eye
And this the royalty of Albion's king?
Welcome, Jack: where hast thou been?
ACT V
I swear he is true--hearted; and a soul
To make it known to us.
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
world's end? I will go on the slightest errand now
I'll look you out a good turn, Servilius.
Are not you the chief woman? you are the thickest here.
To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
If I could bear it longer, and not fall
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
Who hath relieved you?
To revel in the entrails of my lambs.
With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
Master Brook, that you have cozened of money, to
That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,
I have used it, nuncle, ever since thou madest thy
But this thing dare not,--
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
Both by the Syracusians and ourselves,
Daughter to Charlemain, who was the son
By unkind usage, dangerous countenance,
My sons would never so dishonour me:
not such a fool to think what I list, nor I list
What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!
Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested;
her, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
God ye good even, William.
We must not think the Turk is so unskilful
For well I wot the empress never wags
If our betters play at that game, we must not dare
AEgeon art thou not? or else his ghost?
simple syllogism will serve, so; if it will not,
And brings from him such offers of our peace
Delight in them sets off: some kinds of baseness
How I am braved and must perforce endure it!
Hush!
So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.
Or died where they were made, or shortly after
To tell thee that this day is ominous:
We will be revenged.
Close at the heels of her virtues.
So differing in their acts. Yet if I knew
To speak your bosom freely.
wicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art
Into your private chamber, we shall give you
fear of Mars before it and of his creatures, not
Play'd foul play with our oaths: your beauty, ladies,
The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile:
This is the tenor of the emperor's writ:
Knocks
SCENE II. The rebel camp.
Partition make with spectacles so precious
and buck-baskets! Well, I will proclaim myself
When I'll depose I had him in mine arms
Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent:
He would receive it? he and his physicians
Who have--as who have not, that their great stars
Which I will win from France, or else be slain,
old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred;
Than whom no mortal so magnificent!
'Deliver Helen, and all damage else--
Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none.
But, for your conscience?
Proceeded further; cut me off the heads
Deck'd with five flower-de-luces on each side;
Why?
Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio?
I'll lead you to some biding.
the arbitrement of swords, can try it out with all
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
had losses, and one that hath two gowns and every
The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim
If he were proud,--
The sweet and bitter fool
Under the cool shade of a sycamore
SCENE V. The same.
'Tis one of the best discretions of a 'oman as ever
The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell;
Calm thee, and bear the faults of Titus' age,
Not painted with the crimson spots of blood.
By your espials were discovered
Shall give thee opportunity.' O damn'd paper!
That brought her for this high good turn so far?
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
Enter JESSICA, below
Then, Aaron, arm thy heart, and fit thy thoughts,
And slept above some fifteen year or more.
On me, that halt and am unshapen thus?
All, away!
Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK,  EXETER, VERNON	BASSET, and others. To them with his Soldiers, TALBOT
Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,
But even for want of that for which I am richer,
from your encounter, then they light on us.
Here is my hand; the premises observed,
Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat; or bespeak a
Is hard at study; pray now, rest yourself;
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Well,
Enter RODERIGO
What I have written to you?
Therefore lay bare your bosom.
For that 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss
Give me thy hand: I will swear to the prince thou
Than pity for mischance!
They have left their viands behind; for we have stomachs.
Grecian, thou dost not use me courteously,
Poor thing, condemn'd to loss!
Noble and young,
Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder!
When it is all to nought; and his quails ever
We'll part the time between's then; and in that
ANTIPHOLUS
The reason is, your spirits are attentive:
What, no more?
And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful!
So thrive my soul--
Keep in that mind; I'll deserve it.
Or seven fair branches springing from one root:
And make him with our pikes and partisans
as Helen: an she were not kin to me, she would be as
To know for what he comes, and whence he comes,
In short and musty straw? Alack, alack!
And tread it under foot with all contempt,
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
And from her bosom took the enemy's point,
DON
I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make
But let him from my thoughts. What think you, coz,
me in capite; and we charge and command that their
Let me not stay a jot for dinner; go get it ready.
I must employ you in some business
We'll chide this Dauphin at his father's door.
boy, half French, half English, that shall go to
Ha!
With other princes that may best be spared,
Requires slow pace at first: anger is like
Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.
So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.
I have, in this rough work, shaped out a man,
With his sword drawn; foam'd at the mouth, and swore,
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
When I behold--Seyton, I say!--This push
You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
That's my brave lord!
Come, to our flock.
The part I came in: fight I will no more,
Exeunt
Wash the congealment from your wounds, and kiss
I wonder of their being here together.
There's Dolabella sent from Caesar; call him.
So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
Come hither, Gardiner.
O, may diseases only work upon't!
addition I can: I will not be long from you.
Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em
you? You will lose your reputation.
new-fangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires
His livery, and deny his offer'd homage,
Than spotted livers in the sacrifice.
Ran in my veins, I was a gentleman;
Let's make no stay.
The Dauphin is preparing hitherward,
Go, then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and
A holy prophetess new risen up,
Which never could I so convey,
IAGO offers to stab EMILIA
And still keep eyes upon her. So, good night:
I went to her, Master Brook, as you see, like a poor
And make a monster of you.
I dare your quenchless fury to more rage:
Be witness to me, O thou blessed moon,
My noble father,
Here, here, here's an excellent place; here we may
O sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinned,
I am your accessary; and so, farewell.
That, with the little godliness I have,
SCENE III. OLIVIA's garden.
From Milan.
Go to; let that be mine:
I would always have one play but one thing.
Let's see;
Our necessary actions, in the fear
And, farewell, friends;
She's my good lady, and will conceive, I hope,
for you; and there's an end.
estate upon you, and here live and die a shepherd.
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
They rise
The venison first shall be the lord o' the feast;
Mort Dieu!
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
you.
Give me thy hand: Come.
For obtaining of suits?
SCENE II. Alexandria. A room in the monument.
Yea, like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish,
The bloody proclamation to escape,
What says the golden chest? ha! let me see:
A fustian riddle!
A heavy sight!
Yet living in my glass; even such and so
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward.
Deliver all with charity.
Not what you are, I know it will excuse
lopped branches, which, being dead many years,
And not be all day neither.
Suppose the singing birds musicians,
What did I then, but cursed the gentle gusts
held the very garment of Posthumus in more respect
ergo, light wenches will burn. Come not near her.
To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span
With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
[To FERDINAND]  Ay, sweet my lord; and so I take my leave.
Their liberties are now in arms; a precedent
Why, so! then am I sure of victory.
this slaughter: besides, they have burned and
To match us in comparisons with dirt,
Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty;
Under pretence to see the queen his aunt--
O, my sweet sir, news fitting to the night,
please you, Sir Nathaniel?
I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to
Where your majesty demands, that the King of France,
His radiant root. Away! and, to be blest,
Which contradicts my accusation and
No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favoured; for
In a cowslip's bell I lie;
Your greeting is from him, not from the king.
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Debosh'd on every tomb, on every grave
But God hath made her sin and her the plague
[Aside]  But love will not be spurr'd to what
Or my shamed life in his dishonour lies:
A kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy,
Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
Why then, my love adieu!
Ho, ho, ho!
How farest thou, mirror of all martial men?
And so beguile thy sorrow, till the heavens
My liege,
That promise noble service: and they come
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON with LAVINIA, ravished; her hands cut off, and her tongue cut out
And turns the sun to shade; alas! alas!
How now, monsieur! this drum sticks sorely in your
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
So, traitor! 'When she comes!' When is she thence?
There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun
You're well met once again.
Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense.
The title of this most renowned duke;
Enter GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
afore Michaelmas?
out!' that any madness I ever yet beheld seemed but
That island of England breeds very valiant
Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave,
And high and low beguiles the rich and poor:
him truly that will put me in trust: to love him
How like the empress and her sons you are!
With all the abhorred births below crisp heaven
Yet, since love's argument was first on foot,
That drag the tragic melancholy night;
To have command obey'd.
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
How he comes o'er us with our wilder days,
I warrant you, my lord.
The service that you three have done is more
Is the initiate fear that wants hard use:
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
Re-enter the FRENCH KING and his QUEEN, BURGUNDY, and other Lords
To apply to his bleeding face. Now, heaven help him!
Must be so too, if heed me; which to do
Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
That's bitter to sweet end.
go, good Tubal; at our synagogue, Tubal.
A greater power than we can contradict
But spoke the harm that is by others done?
Upon his honour'd finger, to attain
He shall submit, or I will never yield.
Kissing TITUS
I'll fetch him presently.
And there awake God's gentle-sleeping peace.
Why, as black as ink.
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
I am yours,
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
You have been factious one against the other,
Enter FORD
Consider it not so deeply.
Are you now going to dispatch this deed?
to drink small beer: all the realm shall be in
How many of you have mine eyes beheld!
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
Those men are happy; and so are all are near her.
Yes, my good lord, a pure unspotted heart,
Pretty, i' faith.
No, noble mistress;'tis fresh morning with me
What, sovereign sir,
powers, drove the grossness of the foppery into a
But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
But your reason was not substantial, why there is no
strain were in the same distress.
Nothing but this! yes, as much love in rhyme
My lord,
That e'er I proved thee false or fear'd thy faith.
With signs of war about his aged neck:
Than by the negligent.
Ay, sharp and piercing, to maintain his truth;
shall read it in--what do you call there?
Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry and take the fool
I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word.
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
And merrily hent the stile-a:
We two, that with so many thousand sighs
And seal the bargain with a holy kiss.
I wish it grubb'd up now.
For thus his royalty doth speak in me.
You lie.
Dead, sure; and this his grave. What's on this tomb
But, wrangling pedant, this is
Rather than have false Proteus rescue me.
the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart
hollow: but a good heart, Kate, is the sun and the
Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
I am: what must we understand by this?
Re-enter KING JOHN and KING PHILIP, with their powers, severally
Thine intellect? hath he been in thy heart?
That I will joy no more.
ANTIPHOLUS
Nor to comply with heat--the young affects
O, he is even in my mistress' case,
worthy of by your attempt.
Of greater sums than I have promised.
Sir, my life is yours;
That I was constant Cimber should be banish'd,
With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha' strew'd his grave,
Appear i' the market-place nor on him put
Of thee, which says thus, 'Do my Lord of Canterbury
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome
Culling the principal of all the deer.
How now! what news?
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
[Within]  Break any breaking here, and I'll break your
Is never free of. But, beseech your grace,
Unreverent Gloster!
the pudding in his belly, that reverend vice, that
For so I have strew'd it in the common ear,
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
Exit THURIO
Alarum. Enter fighting, Soldiers of both armies; then BRUTUS, CATO, LUCILIUS, and others
'Tis well, 'tis well; no more:
Nay, good lieutenant,--alas, gentlemen;--
you two would marry.
[To KING RICHARD III]
But throw her forth to beasts and birds of prey:
Ran hither to your grace; whom I beseech
Well, for two of them, I know them to be as
As full of sorrows as the sea of sands,
Farewell till then.
second edition: he will print them, out of doubt;
Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your highness?
The pine and let thee out.
Enter a Messenger
And teach lavoltas high and swift corantos;
That in your country's service drew your swords:
Ay, and he'll tame her.
For, well I wot, thou hast thy mother's tongue.
I'll fetch them, sir.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus from the courtezan's
O'erstunk their feet.
To stop their marches 'fore we are inflamed.
And those two counties I will undertake
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
But what particular rarity? what strange,
A weeder-out of his proud adversaries,
with you. I told him you were asleep; he seems to
Dead, for my life!
Which, like dumb mouths, do ope their ruby lips,
I thank your worship for your good counsel:
This might have been prevented and made whole
The book of his good acts, whence men have read
Like empty purses pick'd; and his poor self,
Then, as the manner of our country is,
Enter SIR ANDREW
Why, boy, how is it?
Dispropertied their freedoms, holding them,
God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me; but a
Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night
Horrible sight! Now, I see, 'tis true;
She is not hot, but temperate as the morn;
took you for, I made no offence; therefore, I
as any is between this and his head; he hath fought
But while 'tis spoke each turn away her face.
CORIOLANUS offers to go away
wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him: so
Say, Wolsey, that once trod the ways of glory,
Well, I must leave her company.
Out of a foreign wisdom, renouncing clean
No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man;
so am I; ha, ha! then there's more sympathy: you
Which who shall cross?--along to go:
And no great friend, I fear me, to the king.
And what is left, to lose it by his country,
whore-masterly villain, with the sleeve, back to the
But never till to-night, never till now,
Ambassadors from Harry King of England
Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth
not. But, truly, these same whoreson devils do the
And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey,
Thou drunken slave, I sent thee for a rope;
Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly with you.
Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams,
part. Thine, in the dearest design of industry,
If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good a
They run off
Then both, or one, or any thing thou wilt.
My lord your son drew on my master.
country mistresses; this gentleman at that time
But burning fatal to the Talbotites!
to-night; for indeed he is not for your lordship's respect.
You mistake, sir, you mistake, sir. Pray, what do
And doth impeach the freedom of the state,
In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.
be this morning executed, and his head born to Angelo.
So I say.
That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.
O Perdita, what have we twain forgot!
Pride went before, ambition follows him.
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
And open this to Pericles. I do shame
Notice to Escalus and Angelo,
Thou liest, thou shag-hair'd villain!
Exit PANDARUS
We fear to warrant in our native place!
Shall not be long but I'll be here again:
Had Henry got an empire by his marriage,
Yes: and you heard what the other told me?
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
Who, weak with age, cannot support myself:
Peace, peace!
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
Cyprus. Othello, the fortitude of the place is best
Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.
For being not mad but sensible of grief,
This babble shall not henceforth trouble me.
But I can make respective in myself,
And recks not his own rede.
That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes,
Enter two Gentlemen
Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
Our windows are broke down in every street
The queen, my lord, is dead.
Then be't so, my good lord.
We'll speak with thee at sea: at land, thou know'st
As to the legitimate: fine word,--legitimate!
I'll tell thee thou dost evil.
I might in virtue, beauties, livings, friends,
How now, bully-rook! thou'rt a gentleman.
Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition
Heavens, have I said, the bounty of this lord!
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
I went
Calls my lord?
That with his name the mothers still their babes?
True; and thy master a shepherd.
Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
But lay down our proportions to defend
conscience take it.
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
Whether Caesar will come forth to-day, or no;
KENT is put in the stocks
Have I since your departure had, my lords.
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
Your shafts of fortune, though they hurt you mortally,
My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.
'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
What, of my suit?
Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
Is, that his noble grace would have some pity
Willing to leave their burthen. Reach a chair:
Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.
fighter, though now a man of peace.
yours; and welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine.
Good as the best. Promising is the very air o' the
And give some evening music to her ear.
How long is't ago, Jack, since thou sawest thine own knee?
Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric,
DIANA appears to PERICLES as in a vision
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
Are you not Pericles? Like him you spake,
If with a lady of so high resolve
Where did you leave him?
I was not born a yielder, thou proud Scot;
Scarce blood enough in all their sickly veins
Now is it manhood, wisdom and defence,
Because some tell me that thou art a king.
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony: who,
Yea, my good lord.
And for myself, foe as he was to me,
between Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a
Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
Most sovereign creature,--
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
James Gurney, wilt thou give us leave awhile?
You strain too far.
Bear witness, Heaven, I have my wish for ever.
Two ships from far making amain to us,
And for his dreams, I wonder he is so fond
Unto our brother France, and to our sister,
You took occasion to be quickly woo'd
O bloody period!
From worthy Edward, King of Albion,
Turns what he list. The king will know him one day.
Still question'd me the story of my life,
And set me on the proof. So the gods bless me,
Much business appertaining.
Exeunt guard with MARGARET JOURDAIN, SOUTHWELL,  and c
What dream'd my lord? tell me, and I'll requite it
Creep in the minds and marrows of our youth,
Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements! good!
That you have no such mirrors as will turn
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
none of you hates them--that between you and the
That play'd on her ripe lip, seem'd not to know
Cuckoo, cuckoo: O word of fear,
Men prize the thing ungain'd more than it is:
And both return back to their chairs again:
My sovereign liege, no letters; and few words,
One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail;
This is he.
Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
Now in good time, here comes the duke himself.
worse payment.
Is this the Talbot, so much fear'd abroad
SCENE III. The same.
For that they will not intercept my tale:
Here I have a pilot's thumb,
If not, I'll leave him to the officer.
Let us seem humbler after it is done
Enter BALTHASAR, booted
Their mercy at the price of one fair word;
Hath her life been; the cure whereof, my lord,
And, brother, here's the Earl of Wiltshire's blood,
I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
I have surely seen him:
worships' company.
these letters delivered; put the liveries to making,
To seek new friends and stranger companies.
Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
I will go seek him. Cassio, walk hereabout:
Good expedition be my friend, and comfort
DON
Is he sure bound? look that you bind them fast.
Ay, and Wall too.
For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,
Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
Is she sole child to the king?
Some sudden mischief may arise of it;
As place Duke Humphrey for the king's protector?
ACT IV
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
There were so many, whom she may accuse.
but if she be less than an honest woman, she is
world. Here comes two of the banished duke's pages.
That are to censure them.
And bring me word what he doth say to thee.
We will haste us.
By nice direction of a maiden's eyes;
So great fear of my name 'mongst them was spread,
Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed;
I had rather give my body than my soul.
Delay not, Caesar; read it instantly.
Did I offend your highness.
Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me:
And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
he transgressed: she would have made Hercules have
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
With all my heart, and think me honoured
And grapple with him ere he comes so nigh.
heels and your heart both in an instant.
I have from their confines call'd to enact
To bring it into danger.
Well may I get aboard! This is the chase:
Into an honest house, our story says.
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
ACT IV
By some, that know not why he is away,
Aside
O time! thou must untangle this, not I;
But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?
Which is that adversary?
Enter QUEEN, BUSHY, and BAGOT
'Tis their fresh supplies.
Tremble, like aspen-leaves, upon a lute,
Except this city now by us besieged,
But why, why, why?
should freelier rejoice in that absence wherein he
business, I am therefore no courtier? I am courtier
For me, by this pale queen of night I swear,
Porter, remember what I gave in charge;
My mother told me just how he would woo,
Steep'd in the faultless blood of pretty Rutland--
Who sets me else? by heaven, I'll throw at all:
Tell Athens, in the sequence of degree
I will conduct you where you shall be lodged;
For of no right, nor colour like to right,
Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance:
Assume the port of Mars; and at his heels,
Till the high fever seethe your blood to froth,
That it might please you to give quiet pass
Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
So am I driven by breath of her renown
If the redress will follow, thou receivest
In the corrupted currents of this world
Semblably furnish'd like the king himself.
The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel.
And live alone as secret as I may.
For what they have been: 'tis a cruelty
sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of
My precious queen, forbear;
As soul and body's severing.
I thank you for my venison, Master Shallow.
So have we all, of joy; for our escape
They grow still too; from all parts they are coming,
Cyprus black as e'er was crow;
He could not miss't.
And his pure soul unto his captain Christ,
Citing my worthless praise: O, pardon me;
For the rain it raineth every day.
Here, Fluellen; wear thou this favour for me and
But jealous souls will not be answer'd so;
Peace, Grumio! it is the rival of my love.
Sway'd from the point, by looking down on Caesar.
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint you
A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuffed with all
O thou damnable fellow! Did not I pluck thee by the
To feast so great a warrior in my house.
Or hoop his body more with thy embraces,
The quality and hair of our attempt
BISHOP
That says his bravery is not of my cost,
sorry, when he sent to borrow of me, that my
Ay, ay. thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond:
Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds:
My manors, rents, revenues I forego;
'Twere now to be most happy; for, I fear,
And thou, by that small hurt, hast cashier'd Cassio:
There's no such sport as sport by sport o'erthrown,
Did make offence his eye did heal it up.
You have done that you should be sorry for.
ways do lie open.
The execution of it shall make known.
Will quench the wonder of her infamy:
He is afraid of me and I of him:
Here: what news?
That's somewhat sudden:
Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
She's a beagle, true-bred, and one that adores me:
Of this most grievous guilty murder done!
The noise was here. Ha! no more moving?
'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
We came again to bind them. Then they fled
Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
Let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down
With thee awhile: determine on some course,
like 'em: I could wish my best friend at such a feast.
is that he will steal himself into a man's favour and
It shall be so, disdain they ne'er so much.
The insatiate greediness of his desires,
Tush, none but minstrels like of sonneting!
Send out a pursuivant at arms
Set down by the poll?
I have too much believed mine own suspicion:
her with crying; for the ewe that will not hear her
didst know how many fathom deep I am in love! But
Spirits to enforce, art to enchant,
It is so, sir: truly, I have forgot you.
Ba, pueritia, with a horn added.
Yes, I beseech; or I shall short my word
This widow lady? In her right we came;
Enter ROBIN
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general,
He must be told on't, and he shall: the office
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
honestly by the prick of their needles, but it will
Acting it many ways. Nay, had I power, I should
So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
question of the play be then to be considered:
But I bespoke you fair, and hurt you not.
Very well.
Alack, alack the day!
She hath been colted by him.
drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain; he
Look you sad, friends?
Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
What would my lord, but that he may not have,
For bounty, that makes gods, does still mar men.
Know'st now the youth that spoke to me erewhile?
Than to repute himself a son of Rome
Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;
Look'st thou pale, France? do not let go thy hand.
The king, I can tell you, looks for us all: we must
solidares for thee: good boy, wink at me, and say
That stays upon me, whose persuasion is
You sent me for a rope's end as soon:
Ay, that he razed.
shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
But to speak that in words which his eye hath
Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd;
Command the health of it? No, thou proud dream,
makes it soon mortal.
shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion?
marriage honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord
The glory of our Troy doth this day lie
Why hopest thou so? 'tis better hope he is;
Will show you his estate.
SCENE III. A churchyard; in it a tomb belonging to the Capulets.
A pattern, precedent, and lively warrant,
As boldness from my bosom, let 't not be doubted
knows not from the enemy: we will bind and hoodwink
The bawdy wind that kisses all it meets
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France, with letters, and divers Attendants
Accept this scroll, most gracious sovereign,
I have eyed with best regard and many a time
Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf
Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
The harvest is your own.
Prithee, go in thyself: seek thine own ease:
In every county as we go along.
On what I hate I feed not.
I do believe that violent hands were laid
Why, couldst thou perceive so much from her?
Caesar? Why, he's the Jupiter of men.
Of thousands that had struck anointed kings
My thanks, sweet madam.
Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
Was this before the king return'd?
Till George be pack'd with post-horse up to heaven.
Suddenly made him from my side to start
country in denying me a kiss: therefore, patiently
I would to heaven I had your potency,
FRANCISCO at his post. Enter to him BERNARDO
Yet grace must still look so.
But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives
Good sooth, I care not for you.
To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld.
Save you, Master Doctor Caius!
And thy father bore it:
Than beauty could, display'd. But mark me;
I hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping:
came in foot and hand; and with a thought seven of
My dangerous cousin, let your mother in:
By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.
Hubert, away with him; imprison him;
Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
Flourish of trumpets within
As infancy and grace. But yet, Paulina,
That he is thus cut off. Please it your honours
Go to. Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind?
SCENE I. Marseilles. A street.
Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be
And so to arms, victorious father,
That ever turn'd their--backs--to mortal views!
Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd,
When that I was and a little tiny boy,
Exit
the more wrong,' quoth I; ''twas I did the thing you
Wish we all joy and honour.
To try a larger fortune.
But I have reasons strong and forcible.
Read, and declare the meaning.
Yes, 'tis most meet: whom may you else oppose,
And she shall thank you for't, if e'er you know her.
poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband,
And from her jealous arms pluck him perforce.
This very night; for Love is like a child,
is, Master Page, fidelicet Master Page; and there is
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
I would forget her; but a fever she
Cry 'No recovery.'
Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward,
He's in his fit now and does not talk after the
disturbing the lords within.
Who may, in the ambush of my name, strike home,
And break the foresaid peace. Let the king know,
Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight.
the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant? I pray
When I have told you that, I have told you all.
Were I the general, thou shouldst have my office
Come with me, fool, come.
We write in water. May it please your highness
The world may read in me: my body's mark'd
I beseech your majesty, give me leave to go;
'His garment!'
In lieu whereof, I pray you, bear me hence
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
Come, lady, I will show thee to my kin;
Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts
Are dogg'd with two strange followers.
Opens his vasty jaws; and on your head
Ay, what's o'clock?
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
Ah, but I think him better than I say,
and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear
What is amiss?
You have too much respect upon the world:
woman is a dish for the gods, if the devil dress her
son the whole name of the war: he hath in this
Nay, her foot speaks; her wanton spirits look out
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
Mistress Ford. You dissembling knight!
Let me have Hermia's: do you marry him.
But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile,
By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.
We kept together in our chivalry!'
With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.
Which breathed this poison.
And in the shape of Corin sat all day,
From your own mouth, my lord, did I this deed.
Infected as her life, she would not live
That turns their countenances.
By heaven, I will ne'er come in your bed
I have writ me here a letter to her: and here
Do you not know I am a woman? when I think, I must
Thus comes the English with full power upon us;
shot, who disgraced, what terms the enemy stood on;
Upon these slanderers.
No, no, they were not bound.
Nor shall not now: for in companions
He prays but faintly and would be denied;
So I grow stronger, you more honour gain.
He presently become a Christian;
Great men have reaching hands: oft have I struck
Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
Alas, good lady!
O Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb
Because that I familiarly sometimes
The lineal state and glory of the land!
Here they shoot. SALISBURY and GARGRAVE fall
To mourn thy crosses, with thy daughter's, call
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me;
Name him.
And help to dress your sister's chamber up:
a trunk in one corner of it.
Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond,
Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should;
Doth valour's show and valour's worth divide
By all external warrants, show it now,
Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
Commit my cause in balance to be weigh'd.
Well, sir, what answer made the belly?
How now, foolish rheum!
ACT III
Kneel down before him, hang upon his gown:
Reveals before 'tis ripe, what thou dost know
with a paper: God give him grace to groan!
Emilia, come. Be as your fancies teach you;
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
Lest I surcease to honour mine own truth
'Item: She brews good ale.'
Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet,
bless myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me?
For that's an article within our law,
That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,
A wilderness is populous enough,
Or by the father there were none at all;
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
'Speak, strike, redress!' Am I entreated
If she be very well, what does she ail, that she's
The last was I that helped thee to the crown;
Promised no less to them?
And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
Calmly, I do beseech you.
To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
more tractable.
O, let no words, but deeds, revenge this treason!
Do thou amend thy face, and I'll amend my life:
O fair return of banish'd majesty!
'On pain of losing her tongue.' Who devised this penalty?
At your pleasure.
True, so I am.
Aches contract and starve your supple joints!
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and three or four with tapers
he out of Venice, I can make what merchandise I
He is a friend.
Necessitied to help, that by this token
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE bearing a torch before him
His master's son, as worshipful as he terms it,
Enlarged him and made a friend of him,
What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
give me your blessing: I am Launcelot, your boy
ANTIPHOLUS
Farewell, Monsieur Traveller: look you lisp and
your son: give me your blessing: truth will come
The selfsame sun that shines upon his court
Would it had been so, that they
[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
ANTIPHOLUS
holy, cold, and still conversation.
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
Be advised.
Let me go, I say.
displeasure.
And these does she apply for warnings, and portents,
Ay, my good lord.
And on your family's old monument
He fell sick suddenly, and grew so ill
The world's a huge thing: it is a great price.
Before thee stands this fair Hesperides,
For here he doth demand to have repaid
It is extempore, from my mother-wit.
present. Why should I carry lies abroad?
Thy nimble, sulphurous flashes! O, how, Lychorida,
As it is known she is, these moral laws
I never had honest man about me, I; all
What, John Rugby! John! what, John, I say!
Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer;
Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf:
fortune of us that are the moon's men doth ebb and
Perhaps I shall be rescued by the French;
brains. I will fetch you light and paper and ink.
They in themselves, good-sooth, are too too light.
Nor showing, as the manner is, his wounds
Harry the king, Bedford and Exeter,
That it is place which lessens and sets off;
tanner of Wingham,--
To-day did dine together. So befall my soul
By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe,
Say you consent and censure well the deed,
Knocking
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
First, madam, I entreat true peace of you,
The veins unfill'd, our blood is cold, and then
or end: well, Troilus, well: I would my heart were
Augurs and understood relations have
But issued from the progeny of kings;
In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!
How goes it with my brave Mark Antony?
every man should beat thee: I think thou wast
Exeunt GRIFFITH and Messenger
forsworn his company hourly any time this two and
The weary sun hath made a golden set,
what he gets more of her than sharp words, let it
Exit
What, what, what? ill luck, ill luck?
Who, inward search'd, have livers white as milk;
When the man dies, let the inheritance
body, horse to ride, and weapon to wear;
Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
Swell'st thou, proud heart? I'll give thee scope to beat,
O, speak no more, for I have heard too much.
The high imperial type of this earth's glory.
For he will live, and laugh at this hereafter.
Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse:
Out of my files, his projects to accomplish,
When the false Troyan under sail was seen,
Can trip me, if I err; who with wet cheeks
May she give that?
Exit MAMILLIUS
Leap o'er the walls for refuge in the field.
Be soon collected and all things thought upon
Fie! you must give way.
And ye choice spirits that admonish me
Will have it thus, that nothing but our lives
What is his name?
The gay new coats o'er the French soldiers' heads
that he is a gouty Briareus, many hands and no use,
ANTIPHOLUS
Anjou and Maine are given to the French;
But being widow, and my Gloucester with her,
What shall be done to him?
Make war upon themselves; blood against blood,
To accept my grief and whilst this poor wealth lasts
between Macedon and Monmouth, that the situations,
Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
and kindly.
Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
ACT II
I thank you. Let's withdraw;
If you, born in these latter times,
That you aptly will suppose
How bravely thou becomest thy bed, fresh lily,
And what's
and all brokers-between Pandars! say, amen.
To make these doubts all even.
Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
Maintain'd the change of words with any creature,
SCENE IV. A street.
What further you will do.
And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER in Cardinal's habit, a Legate and two Ambassadors
Crowns what you are doing in the present deed,
Of private conference.
By the discandying of this pelleted storm,
the dog all this while sheds not a tear nor speaks a
Ay, but the mustard is too hot a little.
Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
I was provoked by her slanderous tongue,
must fit all demands.
Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?
Well, get thee gone; farewell.
And Regan with him: have you nothing said
Hark, what good sport is out of town to-day!
with Benedick for his company; for, from the crown
O Jupiter! there's no comparison.
And bid her steal into the pleached bower,
When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns,
And, to be more than what you were, you would
When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York,
Aside
Which art a lion and a king of beasts?
Bringing rebellion broached on his sword,
Enter the Ghost of BUCKINGHAM
And, uncle, so will I, an if I live.
Steals ere we can effect them. You remember
Be comforted, dear madam.
Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy
night, when thou spokest of Pigrogromitus, of the
To hear the story of your life, which must
Yes.
Than let him so be lost. O most kind maid,
And gentlemen of Italy, most willing spirits,
Signior, it is the Moor.
SCENE IV. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
Of all the trades in Rome. Look, I am going:
Though fools at home condemn 'em.
Here she comes, curst and sad:
And in the Capitol and senate's right,
A moiety of the world.
To do what, signior?
the rest of their company from their sport, to make
ourselves we publish them.
Smiling at grief. Was not this love indeed?
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
No seconds? all myself?
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
Shall give a holiness, a purity,
Thou makest thy knife keen; but no metal can,
Mine would, sir, were I human.
SCENE IV. Another part of the same street, before the house of BRUTUS.
I pray you, one of you question yond man
I had rather hear you to solicit that
No, 'faith; she let it drop by negligence.
For I can raise no money by vile means:
My mother did but duty; such, my lord,
To speak my mind, and I will through and through
My medicine, work! Thus credulous fools are caught;
Of speaking first. Sweet, bid me hold my tongue,
Exit CLOTEN
Most mighty sovereign,
Bless you, sir!
But by ten words, my lord, it is too long,
A god on earth thou art.
And furthermore, well have the Lord Say's head for
Gloucester, we will meet; to thy cost, be sure:
With sighs shot through, and biggest tears
Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious.
she for a woman, God bless us.
At last, though long, our jarring notes agree:
But he will not entreat his son for us.
thing; 'tis a lie, I am not ague-proof.
My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio's
What means your grace?
That heirless it hath made my kingdom and
Now, when thou wakest, with thine
Since I received command to do this business
'The fairest, sweet'st, and best lies here,
him.
And not our streets with war!
Enter KATHARINA and GRUMIO
Wherever we shall meet, for Timon's sake,
I would deny it; but you see my finger
Follow me, then,
Come here himself to question our delay;
O Agamemnon, let it not be so!
I have no exquisite reason for't, but I have reason
I was then present, saw them salute on horseback;
Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each
All thy tediousness on me, ah?
No, no, no.
Then was I going prisoner to the Tower,
here? a man or a fish? dead or alive? A fish:
It pleaseth you, my royal father, to express
the borrowed veil of modesty from the so seeming
It is my father's will I should take on me
Think on thy sins.
What! has your king married the Lady Grey!
By the king.
as it were, a dog at all things. If I had not had
Whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain,
Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
But, now you have it, take it.
Who can bring noblest minds to basest ends!
There wants no diligence in seeking him,
Down with him! down with him!
More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
It must needs be of subtle, tender and delicate
An if you please to call it a rush-candle,
That could do no vengeance to me.
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
Exit Gentleman
'Tis not his wont to be the hindmost man,
I know his lordship is but merry with me;
Enter PERICLES
As Hector's leisure and your bounties shall
This is the man, this is Antonio,
Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum,
For wearing our own noses.
grave's this, sirrah?
'Tis the French Dauphin sueth to thee thus.
Excellent.
Let it go round.
Young man, have you challenged Charles the wrestler?
You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant;
And I was ta'en for him, and he for me,
shapes, objects, ideas, apprehensions, motions,
To offices of tender courtesy.
Possess your fancy.
wear thy heart in a scarf!
And formally, according to our law,
This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon;
And thus far clear him. Now, what moved me to't,
What's this? mutton?
Come, help to bear thy master;
Those suns of glory, those two lights of men,
And chase the native beauty from his cheek
Yes, indeed, was I.
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
You may wear her in title yours: but, you know,
Lay with you in your coffer: which are now
All's done, all's won; here breathless lies the king.
My lord, this is impiety in you:
And the place death, considering who thou art,
We know each other well.
Will creep in service where it cannot go.
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
DON ADRIANO DE
Musicians waiting. Enter Servingmen with napkins
For barbarous and unnatural revolts
Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
And sent her enemies unto the grave.
and I'll give him my horse, grey Capilet.
And heave it shall some weight, or break my back:
so with him.
passion came so near the life of passion as she
Of what coarse metal ye are moulded, envy:
Besides, he says there are two councils held;
may find the young Romeo?
By your allowance; which if you should, the fault
To one that would do thus. I am half through;
When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
outprized by a trifle.
Drums; flourish and colours. Enter KING RICHARD II, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, DUKE OF AUMERLE, and Soldiers
Ay, but he will not now be pacified: Fabian can
He only, in a general honest thought
if he break the peace, he ought to enter into a
To your remembrances: but you have found,
Therefore, go speak: the duke will hear thy voice:
My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold,
If he do break the smallest particle
Off with his head! Now, by Saint Paul I swear,
A noble temper dost thou show in this;
Against the thing I say. Answer to this:
Our potency made good, take thy reward.
To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound,
SCENE II. Kimbolton.
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
My major vow lies here, this I'll obey.
Exit RODERIGO
And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
The lives of those that he did lead to fight
Well, more or less, or ne'er a whit at all,
These eyes that never did nor never shall
Exit
Bring you the maid, you shall not lack a priest.
yet who picked my pocket?
That had in it a crannied hole or chink,
As amply titled as Achilles is,
And, countrymen, my loving followers,
Come, madam, you must straight to Westminster,
came her like in Mytilene.
Ere you can say 'she's honest:' but be 't known,
Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit
nutmegs, seven; a race or two of ginger, but that I
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
This Ajax is half made of Hector's blood:
gipsies on a horse.
By your prescription: but this top-proud fellow,
You stand within his danger, do you not?
And when in music we have spent an hour,
I am impatient of my tarriance.
You may see, Lepidus, and henceforth know,
Worse than a promise-breaker.
Ah, sirrah!
As e'er I heard in madness.
She adulterates hourly with thine uncle John,
I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
If it be that--
Last night of all,
Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?
What, what?
That he would please to alter the king's course,
To me she speaks; she moves me for her theme:
I'll send her straight away: to-morrow
flannel; ignorance itself is a plummet o'er me: use
You have a gentle heart. I saw you lately,
white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a
Enter NERISSA, dressed like a lawyer's clerk
Whispers the Masquers
An if an angel should have come to me
Beg often our own harms, which the wise powers
Are you sure of that?
More matter, with less art.
Yea, but not change his spots: take but my shame.
A dozen years; within which space she died
Thou ever strong upon the stronger side!
serve God, if the devil bid you. Because we come to
Wither goes Vaux so fast? what news, I prithee?
A French song and a fiddle has no fellow.
Madam, before you touch the instrument,
But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.
As Hector, I assure you: and in the managing of
Like to my followers in prosperity,
From all dishonesty he can: in this,
Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail
SCENE II. A room in CORIOLANUS'S house.
Exit
Nor need'st thou much importune me to that
Would fail her obligation: if, sir, perchance
Winter garments must be lined,
Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is
Are to the jealous confirmations strong
For many lives stand between me and home:
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
Have not the grace to grace it with such show.
Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then.
And yet I love him.
And show no sign of fear.
fashion is? how giddily a' turns about all the hot
your hovel.
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
So long a poor unknown.
Will give you satisfaction, you may have't.
Yet in the trial much opinion dwells;
I'll show't the king and undertake to be
Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords:
The secret whispers of each other's watch:
His brows within a golden crown and call'd
To the boy Caesar send this grizzled head,
lie with his wife. Come to me soon at night.
Be cheerful, Richmond; for the wronged souls
[Reads]  'So it is, besieged with sable-coloured
Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
But is he gracious in the people's eye?
Did she see thee the while, old boy? tell me that.
And water cannot wash away your sin.
your several dwelling-places; and not to wear,
Content, my liege! yes, but that I am prevented,
A domineering pedant o'er the boy;
Than their offence can weigh down by the dram;
drink; but I tell you, my lord fool, out of this
Whose misadventured piteous overthrows
Enter a Goth
Who waits there? Sure, you know me?
Now, justice on the doers!
And unregarded age in corners thrown:
Should have hare-hearts, would they but fat
Than to be thirsty after tottering honour,
We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
And we his subjects sworn in all allegiance
Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
This is a double honour, Burgundy:
And lose by over-running. Know you not,
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster
A noble shalt thou have, and present pay;
So be it!
An affable and courteous gentleman:
The common people swarm like summer flies;
Good captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet
Sir Edward Courtney, and the haughty prelate
bountiful gentleman: but thou art wise; and thou
What crows have peck'd them here. He brags
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
Take thou what course thou wilt!
O that Glendower were come!
What you require of him? for he partly begs
I'll make death love me; for I will contend
O heavens! what stuff is here
Good man, the wounds that he does bear for Rome!
And I will fill them with prophetic tears.
Enter ROMEO
The fugitive Parthians follow; spur through Media,
You are a spirit, I know: when did you die?
Fleance is 'scaped.
'Tis most strange,
Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone
What, must it, nurse? then let no man but I
Their going hence, even as their coming hither;
That way, I'll this,--he that first lights on him
I'm out of patience.
Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
What's here?
They are but Lewis and Warwick: I am Edward,
That have this golden chance and know not why.
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
How old art thou?
Hath Doreus prisoner,
Exeunt
A drum now of the enemy's,--
Have practised dangerously against your state,
Let her hang me: he that is well hanged in this
If he were known alive?
Why, this is not a boon;
And then receive my money for the chain.
I beseech you, sir, pardon me: it is a letter
How much ye would?
things, all but what she has with her: this being
My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor;
Nay, stay thou out for earnest.
We must extend our notice. Our dear son,
[Sings]
Cancel his bond of life, dear God, I prey,
So like to him that got it, if thou hast
Let him depart before we need his help.
Who, I? why, he'll answer nobody; he professes not
Pish for thee, Iceland dog! thou prick-ear'd cur of Iceland!
Dismiss his power, he means to visit us,
I something do excuse the thing I hate,
Carlisle, this is your doom:
A stranger and distressed gentleman,
At chamber--door? and one as great as you are?
To gratulate thy plenteous bosom: th' ear,
The want that makes him lean. Who dares, who dares,
Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
Son, how now! how now, son! have you dispatched?
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
And I'll appear again.
Cannot do more in England than the Nevils:
And we fairies, that do run
With all my heart; and much it joys me too,
Because they speak no English, thus they pray'd
Fulvia is dead.
Would become tender.
O thou vile one!
And never will I undertake the thing
Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick;
And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom.
this reason: His master would be served before a
In youth, when I did love, did love,
Parted with sugar breath: so sweet a bar
Murder of Gonzago?
Fairies, black, grey, green, and white,
You do seem to know
I never tasted Timon in my life,
Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou livest,
virginity murders itself and should be buried in
But wherefore dost thou come? is't for my life?
Then fare you well, for I will hence again:
Let him for ever go:--let him not--Charmian,
Of very reverend reputation, sir,
Though therein you can never be too noble,
My damned son, which thy two sweet sons smother'd.
odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me,
This prophecy Merlin shall make; for I live before his time.
Let me make answer; thy usurping son.
I'll have this secret from thy heart, or rip
Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress, or
Your roof were not sufficient to contain't.
Exit
Enter CLEOPATRA
If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay
Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face?
Tut, never fear me: I am as vigilant as a cat to
On you than any; so your hand and heart,
ACT I
I will drain him dry as hay:
How goes the field?
Fauste, precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra
They are entirely welcome.
the tyrant.
In acclamations hyperbolical;
Enter BUCKINGHAM from his arraignment; tip-staves  before him; the axe with the edge towards him;  halberds on each side: accompanied with LOVELL, VAUX, SANDS, and common people
I thank you, doctor.
to be constant in any undertaking. There is scarce
And all my followers to the eager foe
The news is not so tart.--I'll read, and answer.
Your cuckoo sings by kind.
And ring is yours; if not, the foul opinion
That still records with moan; or when
Shall understand it presently.
O no, he lives; but is took prisoner,
And am to Padua come, as he that leaves
Exit FALSTAFF
No matter: get thee gone,
Confine yourself but in a patient list.
My love and her desert; that canst not dream,
And most desire should meet the blow of justice;
'Twill be recorded for a precedent,
Fare you well, gentlemen.
DON
I have.
Well, we leave that to the proof.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition:
But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands:
Without me? they cannot.
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
A stage where every man must play a part,
I am vanquished; these haughty words of hers
In spite of your heart, I think; alas, poor heart!
Hath been as dear as Helen; I mean, of ours:
Methinks they should invite them without knives;
And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,
They that mean virtuously, and yet do so,
Mark you this, Bassanio,
'Tis given with welcome: to feed were best at home;
What, gone without a word?
And may: but, how? how satisfied, my lord?
She is dead, belike?
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
The plain-song cuckoo gray,
The state of man in divers functions,
You drew your sword upon me without cause;
walking and other actual performances, what, at any
It irks his heart he cannot be revenged.
It must be done this afternoon.
any matter of weight chances, call up me: keep your
Has said enough.
motion of the Prodigal Son, and married a tinker's
Have now the fatal object in my eye
Welcome, high prince, the mighty Duke of York!
Of her delivery to this valiant Greek
Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury.
By sudden flight: come, dally not, be gone.
By my knavery, if I had it, then I were; but if you
To the dulling of my spirits: sit down, and rest.
mightst behold the great image of authority: a
His weapons holy saws of sacred writ,
Why, look where he comes; and my good man too: he's
Prefix'd for's parting: yet, good deed, Leontes,
With all the learned council of the realm,
But, as you will not wed, I'll pardon you:
Is this the prince? is this the prince's brother?
Heaven ever laid up to make parents happy,
SCENE V. The Tower of London.
Exeunt
Then I salute you with this kingly title:
How say you?
Long continuance, and increasing,
Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there,
I am for other than for dancing measures.
ANTIPHOLUS
Behold him.
Exit Romeo
[Within]  Francis!
I will devise a death as cruel for thee
Was his great ancestor.
He drinks
Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,
O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee?
displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he
[To IAGO]  O Spartan dog,
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Enter seven or eight Citizens
And bind the boy which you shall find with me
Aside
Alas, the storm is come again! my best way is to
And if Jove stray, who dares say Jove doth ill?
Get fire and meat for these poor men:
To the Spirits
Friend, we understand not one another: I am too
Is she a Capulet?
So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons;
when his disguise and he is parted, tell me what a
That memory, the warder of the brain,
give your dispositions the reins, and be angry at
swear, and my father's soul, the work ish ill done;
Unready! ay, and glad we 'scaped so well.
Stabs him
Look, here I have you; thus I let you go,
Exeunt
So am I given in charge, may't please your grace.
Call up the right master constable. We have here
What is a remuneration?
Upon the head of this forgetful man
Appears before them, and with solemn march
And wherefore call'd Marina?
Where got'st thou that goose look?
On whom I may confer what I have got:
This yellow slave
Ay, madam, well; for I was bred and born
Tell not me:
his duchess will be here with him this night.
But buckle with thee blows, twice two for one.
I saw upon her finger.
forth such fruit.
With winged haste to the lord marshal;
But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
The net has fall'n upon me! I shall perish
service is seldom attributed to the true and exact
Stand by me, Lucius; do not fear thine aunt.
Either led or driven, as we point the way;
Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth; it catches.
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
Even he, my lord.
Hum! ha! is this a vision? is this a dream? do I
Instead of gold, we'll offer up our arms:
Though every drop of water swear against it
Even so, Lucilius.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Medice, teipsum--
Being with his presence glutted, gorged and full.
And anon, sir,
if not, I would it were.
Arraigning his unkindness with my soul;
Nay, stare not, masters: it is true, indeed.
O'er borne i' the former wave: ten, chased by one,
Nay, now you are too flat
In the converse of breath: your gentleness
John Duke of Bourbon, and Lord Bouciqualt:
Should sunder such sweet friends. Here in her hairs
[Reads]  'Thou killest me like a rogue and a villain.'
And as a bed I'll take them and there lie,
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath
To bring this matter to the wished end.
That could endure the toothache patiently,
And the mute wonder lurketh in men's ears,
Even now, even here, not half an hour since.
You must walk by us on our other hand;
Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate:
Doth stop my cornets, were in Talbot's place!
able to woo her in good English.
He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
The least rub in your fortunes, fall away
as ours are: yet, in reason, no man should possess
And, when the work of generation was
No, I protest, I know not the contents:
It will be rain to-night.
Do crave admittance to your majesty.
An end, sir; to your business. Give Helen this,
ACT V
Go, go, sweet Sir John: Mistress Page and I will
It does abhor me now I speak the word;
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
SCENE VI. The same.
[Aside]  Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have
instructions may be your guide. Let this Barnardine
Peace, sister, peace!
They are devised by you; or else you suffer
The aweless lion could not wage the fight,
And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.
before, these weird sisters saluted me, and referred
Music
'Tis proper I obey him, but not now.
This is the night
Enter HELENA, and two Gentlemen
Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;
When I should take possession of the bride,
And to procure safe-conduct from Agamemnon.
Whose was it?
Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
If the dull brainless Ajax come safe off,
To the syllable.
Without controlment, justice, or revenge?
Of this diseased opinion, and betimes;
speak to me: for I am Trinculo--be not afeard--thy
What is this castle call'd that stands hard by?
SCENE III. The same. ANTONIO's house.
Against my brother's life.
Look back into your mighty ancestors:
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
The ceremony?
His lecture will be done ere you have tuned.
We cannot hold mortality's strong hand:
The case stands with her; do't as from thyself.
What woman's that?
ANTIPHOLUS
I further know not.
All is well yet.
Ay, sir, what of him?
Of you, Lord Rivers, and, Lord Grey, of you;
The air of paradise did fan the house
Let him die: sheathe thy impatience, throw cold
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
I do not know if it be it or no.
knavery, mark you now, as can be offer't; in your
Well, then, here's the point:
Why, good sir?
From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon
Instruct my daughter how she shall persever,
'First of the king: what shall of him become?'
But I can tell you that of late this duke
They have made him drink alms-drink.
Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa; love
I am so dishonour'd that the very hour
My woes end likewise with the evening sun.
How? out of tune on the strings?
The power that I have on you is, to spare you;
Thou know'st our reasons urged upon the way;
On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand
How oft when men are at the point of death
Exit
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
who, God bless the mark, is a kind of devil; and, to
And you have rung it lustily, my lord;
Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st
Your faithful service and your toil in war;
As wild Medea young Absyrtus did:
As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb and
why, it is a fairer name than French crown. I will
Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
But how long shall that title 'ever' last?
front his revenges with the easy groans of old
Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays
Now will I dam up this thy yawning mouth
I am fall'n indeed.
I'm sure, in me.
And God acquit them of their practises!
Truly, I thought there had been one number more,
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mew'd up.
For I am all the subjects that you have,
God keep all vows unbroke that swear to thee!
Now I begin to relish thy advice;
and reins well.
The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
But now the blood of twenty thousand men
Say, man, were these thy words?
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
To cozen fortune and be honourable
The more pity, that fools may not speak wisely what
As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry,
Exit Page
Bring us the letter; call the messenger.
Your mother came to Sicily and did find
the breach of hers. Let thine own hands take away
I am not Adriana nor thy wife.
As you were lesson'd, when he had no power,
The general suit of Rome; never admitted
Will you take eggs for money?
Are with a most indissoluble tie
Ten the clock there. Give me a calendar.
If dere be one or two, I shall make-a the turd.
Throws down his gauntlet
Not having that, which, having, makes them short.
Soon may I hear and see him!
My dear master,
is stronger than Hercules: he will lie, sir, with
Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
I have dogs, my lord,
[Within]  Who's there? what, ho!
Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
Otherwhiles the famish'd English, like pale ghosts,
But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
thine eyes so red: thou must be patient. I am fain
Liver of blaspheming Jew,
Can lay upon my sin: yet sinn'd I not
What, not a whore?
Alas my friend and my dear countryman
Are you full of them?
labour ill bestowed.
No words, no words: hush.
SCENE III. A monastery.
This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on.
SCENE III. Plains in Gascony.
What tellest thou me of black and blue? I was
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
SCENE IV. The Boar's-Head Tavern, Eastcheap.
Adieu, till then; then, fail not. You have won
Who in that sale sells pardon from himself,
The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,
The ring I saw upon his finger now--
father; for the king's son took me by the hand, and
Of monstrous friends, nor has he with him to
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Came to my tent; and every one did threat
He looks well on't.
They withdraw into the tent
If I do find it: well.
William, sir.
fanatical phantasimes, such insociable and
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
Why, then, it seems, some certain snatch or so
In being Coriolanus.
content to say it was for his country he did it to
Enter HAMLET
For which I would not plead, but that I must;
house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques
yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
There, Diomed there.
O, relation
Fill me some wine.
Patron of virtue, Rome's best champion,
Enter OTHELLO and Attendants
oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure.
Come on then, and remove him.
walnut for his wife's leman.' Satisfy me once more;
Seeking the food he eats
ANTIPHOLUS
Haply when they have judged me fast asleep,
The deed, which both our tongues held vile to name.
SCENE I. OLIVIA's garden.
The terms of our estate may not endure
If you do not, if I be left alone,
O heinous, strong and bold conspiracy!
the master and main exercise, the incorporate
Do not abuse me.
The way is but short: away!
Last night, I hear, they lay at Northampton;
Then, since this earth affords no joy to me,
Methinks it is like a weasel.
And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger;
Enter HECTOR, armed; AENEAS, TROILUS, and other Trojans, with Attendants
Which way should be go? how should I bestow him?
With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
Grapple your minds to sternage of this navy,
To hide us from pursuit that will be made
Noise within. Enter WARWICK, SALISBURY, and many Commons
A workman in't.
Hang her! I do but say what she is: so delicate
My gracious lord,
Fasten'd ourselves at either end the mast;
In purity of manhood stand upright,
I am heartily glad I came hither to you. If he come
About it, gentlemen!
I  do pronounce him in that very shape
Burthen Bow-wow
Nay, by the mass, that he did not; he beat him most
Of six preceding ancestors, that gem,
burthen and how she longed to eat adders' heads and
the eleven I paid.
And keep your mind, till you return to us,
In my penurious band: I have heard, and grieved,
The glasses of my sight! a beggar's tongue
She is a woman, therefore may be won;
Nay, certainly to-night;
Madam, the Lady Valeria is come to visit you.
There is my gage, the manual seal of death,
Must be as 'tis. My gentle babe Marina, whom,
So long as hell and Richard likes of it.
If I know this, know all the world besides,
Than so much loss of time.
Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
Persuaded him from any further act:
Is this the government of Britain's isle,
And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
Though yet she speak not. Mark a little while.
The boy is foolish, and I fear not him.
some reservation of your wrongs: he is my good
Shall I, for lucre of the rest unvanquish'd,
dreamest not of, the which for sport sake are
The self-same way with more advised watch,
Enter DOGBERRY and VERGES with the Watch
left pap. In faith, secrets!
never buy and sell out of this word.
Pluck their hearts from them. Not to-day, O Lord,
In thee't had been good service. Thou must know,
Do you call me fool?
Not altogether so:
You shall confess that you are both deceived.
Till that the weary very means do ebb?
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
still, ha?
At your command. Know you the character?
But with a baser man of arms by far
She hath not given so many good words breath
a fig for Peter!
Away with the dotard! to the gaol with him!
[Reads]  'Demand of him, of what strength they are
forget their faults, I drink to you.
It comprehends some bringer of that joy;
And all the more it seeks to hide itself,
Foretells a tempest and a blustering day.
Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd;
But this same Cassio, though he speak of comfort
the Egyptians in their fog.
According to your ladyship's impose,
Being the agents, or base second means,
SCENE IV. Outside Macbeth's castle.
Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong:
Duncan comes here to-night.
Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear
The worst fault you have is to be in love.
and the princes, our kindred, are going to see the
Fell banning hag, enchantress, hold thy tongue!
And be a carrion monster like thyself:
Ah, boy, Cornelia never with more care
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
All plumed like estridges that with the wind
Your single bond; and, in a merry sport,
Lead me on.
Without a tongue, using conceit alone,
SONG
Makes me the bolder to salute my king
Ourselves to end ourselves.
Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio
And have not they suffered? Yes, I warrant;
If honour may be shrouded in a hearse,
Enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
That, otherwise than noble nature did,
Come, then, let's go fight with them; but first, go
I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord,--
Exit
We stood to't in good time.
'Proud,' and 'I thank you,' and 'I thank you not;'
You must, as we do, gratify this gentleman,
whipped for holding my peace. I had rather be any
Nay, pray you, seek no colour for your going,
Let housewifery appear: keep close, I thee command.
Well; then I shall see thee again?
What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister
But his performance, as he is now, nothing:
Howe'er you come to know it, answer me:
If you did, I care not.
In praising Antony, I have dispraised Caesar.
Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
Into the hearts of such as have not thrived
More tight at this than thou: dispatch. O love,
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
Our cheeks and hollow eyes do witness it.
[Aside]  This is about that which the bishop spake:
As many farewells as be stars in heaven,
And the great Hector's sword had lack'd a master,
Destroy'd the sweet'st companion that e'er man
Give me some help! O cruel! O you gods!
And we mean well in going to this mask;
But, God be thank'd, there's no need of me,
Have I not told thee how I was cozened by the way
Troilus; you shall see anon.
Of all our fortunes: but if we haply scape,
And so say I.
or no, the velvet knows; but 'tis a goodly patch of
We shall, my lord,
Pawn'd with the other, for the poor rude world
How came he mad?
We make thee lady: to thine and Albany's issue
him. He was first smoked by the old lord Lafeu:
say ay and no to these particulars is more than to
Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,
have not seen these two days.
How long her face is drawn? how pale she looks,
Yourself, renowned prince, then stood as fair
Of what that want might ruin.
What maintenance he from his friends receives,
honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him,
How many sons of mine hast thou in store,
Quite vanquish'd him: then burst his mighty heart;
A little happier than my wretched father:
There would he anchor his aspect and die
Must I be his last refuge! His friends, like
His own opinion was his law: i' the presence
am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.
What tidings send our scouts? I prithee, speak.
Or, if it must stand still, let wives with child
preeches. Go your ways, and play; go.
Thou art a fellow of a good respect;
O well-a-day, Mistress Ford! having an honest man
Sir, I entreat you home with me to dinner.
Indeed, madam?
The labour we delight in physics pain.
Froth, I would not have you acquainted with
My grieved ear withal; whereon, I begg'd
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
Fair Katharine, and most fair,
Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
While all is shared and all is borne away,
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
What torment I did find thee in; thy groans
return again to Venice.
Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest
of cohorts, nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear,
To be opposed against the warring winds?
Exeunt STANLEY and CATESBY
And Trinculo is reeling ripe: where should they
He hath.
Save thee, friend, and thy music: dost thou live by
These news are every where; every tongue speaks 'em,
Set a fair fashion on our entertainment,
he is in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all
Exeunt OBERON, TITANIA, and train
Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend
I say, my daughter is my flesh and blood.
His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretched with struggling;
Weke, weke! so cries a pig prepared to the spit.
No, Messala.
Come up to the truth. So have we thought it good
Exit ALEXAS
And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks:
Mistress Anne, and I would not break with her for
As I before unparted to your worship,
A solemn combination shall be made
that my report: you, indeed, spoke so of him; and
Of who she but bid follow.
wrongs you.
Then learn this of me: to have, is to have; for it
Warble, child; make passionate my sense of hearing.
That hast no less deserved, nor must be known
How came it that the absent duke had not either
An outward honour for an inward toil;
This service is not service, so being done,
What then?
Be that the uttermost, and fail not then.
Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
Re-enter First Murderer
What news from Oxford? hold those justs and triumphs?
Dieu vous garde, monsieur.
That I am proud to hunt.
Bounteous madam,
Though in Rome litter'd--not Romans--as they are not,
Even so: Hector was stirring early.
As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad--
Nothing, unless you render her again.
Where is my prince, the Dauphin?
Or he that makes his generation messes
Come, let us go: we will include all jars
there would be none left to rail upon thee, and then
Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades,
Enter BALTHASAR with Music
I am very glad on't.
the duke we talk of were returned again: the
Being once perfected how to grant suits,
SCENE XI. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Ay, lordly sir; for what are you, I pray,
Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near
Lie would not yield to age.
Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself.
As I descended?
Now lays upon you.
in this wise company? How dost thou, Apemantus?
You have said, sir. To see this age! A sentence is
Drew me from kind embracements of my spouse:
If what I now pronounce you have found true:
I know thee well: a serviceable villain;
Since you have shore
Then stand with us.
Nor mark prodigious, such as are
His oath enrolled in the parliament;
Digest it with a custom, I should blush
May not an ass know when the cart
Prithee, go hence;
Upon our sides it never shall be broken.
And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,
And may that soldier a mere recreant prove,
What shall he have that kill'd the deer?
With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts,
Gives a letter
The regent made in Mytilene
And makes me poor indeed.
Establish him in his true sense again,
But five and twenty. O God, thy arm was here;
loves Troilus,--
Why stand we like soft-hearted women here,
What should the people do with these bald tribunes?
By Cressid's rule: rather think this not Cressid.
goodness in worm.
Or all of it, with our displeasure pieced,
A lover, that kills himself most gallant for love.
The more shame for ye: holy men I thought ye,
You are welcome all.
But it was famed with more than with one man?
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you;
Dying like men, though buried in your dunghills,
This is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort.
Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
Tiber in't; said to be something imperfect in
It is religion that doth make vows kept;
My dearest lord, bless'd, to be most accursed,
SCENE III. The same.
That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am:
To make confession and to be absolved.
Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee.
In your own kingdom, sir.
I'll take the better care, but if you will not,
presence must be the whip of the other.
O abominable!
I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's
And thou, Posthumus, thou that didst set up
Remember it, my lord?
A footman, sweet sir, a footman.
Caesar, that hath more kings his servants than
Count Claudio, whom you sent me to seek.
To fight I will, but not to fly the foe.
I know that, fool.
And I'll grow friend with danger. Wear this sleeve.
Enter the Lord Mayor and his train
Because the king is certainly possess'd
Is sad to think upon his merchandise.
goes to the wars, to grace himself at his return
Help to search my house this one time. If I find
To SOMERSET
If you'll confess he brought home noble prize--
Which he had thought to have murder'd wrongfully.
And beg your pardon: pardon, I beseech you!
Ye turn me into nothing: woe upon ye
Let me o'erleap that custom, for I cannot
We have cause to be glad that matters are so well
That speaks he knows not what?
Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears,
kindness of our profession, she has me her quirks,
Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
Re-enter KING LEAR, with CORDELIA dead in his arms; EDGAR, Captain, and others following
I would cozen the man of his wife and do his service.
That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
Beauty and honour in her are so mingled
Myself an enemy to all other joys,
Enter HASTINGS
under for another.
The king is in high rage.
And that my path were even to the crown,
He hath a lady, wiser, fairer, truer,
me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
Now to deliver her possession up
Follow! nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jole.
Thou'lt torture me to leave unspoken that
I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for
Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour.
To go about my preparation.
And I am sick when I look not on you.
If so, my eyes are oftener wash'd than hers.
with thy uncovered body this extremity of the skies.
Enter the BASTARD
Or have you read or heard? or could you think?
All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven.
Bodykins, Master Page, though I now be old and of
Go after her: she's desperate; govern her.
Up from my cabin,
He may at pleasure whip, or hang, or torture,
Those whose great power must try him; even this,
Here dwells my father Jew. Ho! who's within?
Until they hear the order of his death.
And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
Requite your love!
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
What, my good lord?
Excellent good, i' faith.
Therefore, lord constable, haste on Montjoy.
But blessedly holp hither.
Third Serving-man	My lord, we know your grace to be a man
Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you? Your
Enter certain Outlaws
Whoever charges on his forward breast,
My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
Either for such men or such business.
Will you go see her?
And though the mourning brow of progeny
Whose arms were moulded in their mothers' womb
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
Depending on their brands.
givest me,
Seek out King John and fall before his feet;
Happy be you!
Haply your eye shall light upon some toy
Be great in act, as you have been in thought;
Of this poor infant, this fresh-new sea-farer,
Though now you have no sea-cap on your head.
Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love,
The cognizance of her incontinency
The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
witnesses: bear it coldly but till midnight, and
With sainted vow my faults to have amended.
shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a
Reads
'Tis true; for Friar Laurence met them both,
Are smother'd up, leads fill'd, and ridges horsed
Alas! how should you govern any kingdom,
Exit Tailor
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend.
of that quirk.
against it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my
To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
When I have spoke of you dispraisingly,
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Palace.
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone
Let 'em alone, and draw the curtain close:
What wisdom stirs amongst you? Come, sir, now
If you choose that, then I am yours withal.
What dowry shall I have with her to wife?
My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand;
SCENE II. Tyre. A room in the palace.
Rest you fair, good signior;
sugar-candy to make thee long-winded, if thy pocket
Good morrow, fairest: sister, your sweet hand.
We had not been thus shamefully surprised.
Without a burthen: time as long again
Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan,
Let him not seek 't of us: by day and night,
Our fair appointments may be well perused.
Exit
Ay, my good lord.
Since the more fair and crystal is the sky,
I dare, and do defy thee for a villain.
My Nell, I take my leave: and, master sheriff,
Thou, an Egyptian puppet, shalt be shown
To the tub-fast and the diet.
May cease their hatred, and this dear conjunction
One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to
And none contented: sometimes am I king;
I know not what: 'tis the heart, Master Page; 'tis
And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?
knew it was Crab, and goes me to the fellow that
Ay; would they served us!
vulgar wit!
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE and POLONIUS
What's that to us? The time goes by: away!
I'll find a day to massacre them all
The powers, delaying, not forgetting, have
I have lived long enough: my way of life
or thus. Our bodies are our gardens, to the which
You cannot with such freedom purge yourself,
And though he were unsatisfied in getting,
Or whether that the body public be
Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
valiant master would destroy thee! I do not lie.
Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy,
Alarums. Enter KING HENRY and forces, EXETER, and others
My life is run his compass. Sirrah, what news?
Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking.
It is a peerless kinsman.
Then comes the time, who lives to see't,
Then do we sin against our own estate,
Some there be that shadows kiss;
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
That mount the Capitol; join gripes with hands
He is, my lord, an hour ago.
The firstlings of my hand. And even now,
I never saw a vessel of like sorrow,
Men were deceivers ever,
Will I? i'faith, that we will; and I will tell your
[Reads]  'Imprimis: She can milk.'
Base and unlustrous as the smoky light
Enter the BASTARD
From treason's secret knife and traitors' rage
But the strong base and building of my love
As yet the lamentation of the French
Sir, I will answer any thing. But, I beseech you,
They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo
He 'scaped the land, to perish at the sea.
Young man, thou couldst not die more honourable.
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
What's this? what's this?
Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment
Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
leave your courtesy, good mounsieur.
The way twice o'er.
SCENE II. The same. Plains near Angiers.
Vie feathers white. Marina gets
What means do you make to him?
the way?--
O, no, no, no! 'tis true. Here, take this too;
Might bear him company in the quest of him:
Let me behold thy face. Surely, this man
You heavenly blessings, on her! This fool's speed
Bestow it at your pleasure; and believe,
That she was coming with a full intent
No more but that I know the more one sickens the
Remember. Madam, fare you well:
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow,
In your condemned seconds.
ANTIPHOLUS
Was both herself and love: O, then, give pity
That what you speak is in your conscience wash'd
How courtesy would seem to cover sin,
You come to fright us.
Where I was wont to feed you with my blood,
SCENE I. Elsinore. A platform before the castle.
ANTIPHOLUS
will sing the savageness out of a bear: of so high
What is it she does now? Look, how she rubs her hands.
Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
I do not like her name.
Exeunt
And I with him, and many moe with me,
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
That all the plagues of hell should at one time
Be yet my nephew: my brother hath a daughter,
Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
I could weep, madam, would it do you good.
A just and open trial. While she lives
but, as you say, sir, let your bounty take a nap, I
To take on me to keep and kill thy heart.
The herbs that have on them cold dew o' the night
Even pushes 'gainst our heart: the party tried
To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple,
But 'tis so lately alter'd, that the old name
Brother, adieu: good fortune come to thee!
Woe me! for what?
Bows toward her, and would under-peep her lids,
wore it? I mean, in a sort.
the bee of her honey.
ACT IV
For in a minute there are many days:
There's toys abroad: anon I'll tell thee more.
For lately we were bound, as you are now
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths
Bu t yet I slew him manfully in fight,
hard for him; I have heard him say so himself.
That he may never more false title plead,
Exeunt
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
their better safety, to fly away by night.
I cannot be so partial, Goneril,
Then pleaded I for you.
stands well with her.
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
Hast thou given all to thy two daughters?
Of heaven and men, her purposes; repented
Revolted Mortimer!
A piece of him.
Sometime in Greece,--
An eminent monsieur, that, it seems, much loves
players as ever I see!
His love to Antony. But as for Caesar,
On, to the Capitol!
his right wits and his good judgments, turned away
Mine innocency and Saint George to thrive!
If by this crime he owes the law his life,
He loves the gallimaufry: Ford, perpend.
Advanced their eyelids, lifted up their noses
That henceforth he shall trouble us no more.
Here's a petition from a Florentine,
These knights unto their several lodgings!
kind o' thing than a fool: and yet I would not be
I hear him as he flatter'd.
Here Goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword.
Than have him hold that purpose and to put it
Give me thy hand: thou shalt have a share in our
I have too few to take my leave of you,
I prithee now, sweet son, as thou hast said
The town sounds a parley.
I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms, split my breast.
You tempt the fury of my three attendants,
SCENE II. The palace.
One seven-night longer.
That every man should take his own,
Recking as little what betideth me
a merciful man; good my lord.
An odd man, lady! every man is odd.
Let's ha't, good soldier.
monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it.
that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
Which I with sword will open.
Sings
My most dear Gloucester!
Thou hast not done before.
'Come, sweet Audrey:
I did very well note him.
Come, muster men: my counsel is my shield;
not in the contents.
Nestor-like aged in an age of care,
And his own courses will denote him so
And for your brother, he was lately sent
The more degenerate and base art thou,
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from
Against such lewdsters and their lechery
I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
But keep that countenance still. My husband's hand!
Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right,
Now, by the gods, I pity his misfortune,
I'll have my bond; I will not hear thee speak:
never draw sword again.
On her kind nursery. Hence, and avoid my sight!
We shall not spend a large expense of time
any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
Have you importuned him by any means?
arrived but hither.
Why, friends, you go to do you know not what:
For the which I will be thy adversary toward Anne
I hope it is some pardon or reprieve
With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
How wert thou handled being prisoner?
To teach thee safety! thou art perjured too,
Exeunt
And are by me with child,'  and c. This is done:
Sharp physic is the last: but, O you powers
For others' uses. Yet, 'tis the plague of great ones;
Come, cords, come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;
Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the
As you feel doing thus; and see withal
Which is the least?
Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all,
Give me a note: your ladyship can set.
It must appear in other ways than words,
Music plays
And Sir John Stanley is appointed now
respects, makes a beast a man, in some other, a man
Thou hast served me with much faith. What's else to say?
The other, Walter Whitmore, is thy share.
Tune a deploring dump: the night's dead silence
The sternness of his presence?
Whereto thy speech serves for authority,
Yet so he ruled and such a prince he was
Did you but know the city's usuries
Like all mankind, show me an iron heart?
I found a friend, and sure as death I swore
Blushing to be encountered with a cloud.
well, sir.
Of the most bloody nurser of his harms!
I will not desire that.
of our own behavior,--we make guilty of our
Thou hotly lust'st to use her in that kind
What but to speak of would offend again.
We'll along ourselves, and meet them at Philippi.
With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails,
As all things shall redound unto your good.
Crush him together rather than unfold
SCENE I. The same. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA
I will say so.
He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them,
And by the benefit of his wished light,
Stepp'd before larges of proof, cannot be found:
One that rejoices in the common wreck,
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
Our reasons are so full of good regard
And pray the Roman gods confound you both!
That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she
And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
Ay, ay, he said four.
Might with a sally of the very town
Bassanio told him he would make some speed
No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see the
Answer his emptiness! Caesar, thou hast subdued
Have you not set mine honour at the stake
[Returning]  My lord, I would I might entreat
Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em:
That e'er I sigh'd for: pity move my father
Wise.
Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
At Saint Gregory's well.
Hence! I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
To hear good counsel: O, what learning is!
I have not been desirous of their wealth,
Mort de ma vie! if they march along
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
The fancy outwork nature: on each side her
Which in the very meeting fall and die.
And here is come to do some villanous shame
Exit, above
Ay, but her forehead's low, and mine's as high.
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
Make her thanks bless thee.
'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage;
Who only by misfortune of the seas
after three-pence a bay: if you live to see this
small kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewels
We are busy; go.
Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
Thisbe, is the better; he for a man, God warrant us;
That high All-Seer that I dallied with
none; why, none: a slipper and subtle knave, a
Enter MACBETH and BANQUO
did atone my countryman and you; it had been pity
SCENE II. A room in FORD'S house.
I shall remember:
A virtuous maid, the daughter of a count
about my heart: but it is no matter.
And salt too little which may season give
You have conspired against our royal person,
Thou art a lord, and nothing but a lord:
In spite of Burgundy and all his friends.
Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
support usurers; repeal daily any wholesome act
Ah, uncle Humphrey! in thy face I see
All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head.
matters as he, but I give heaven thanks and make no
Here is the steed, we the caparison:
That head, my lord?
As much as may be yielded to a man:
These both put by a poor petitioner,
Who shall I command, sir?
But that this folly douts it.
That is done too, sir; only 'cover' is the word.
Ay: saw you any thing?
And many an orphan's water-standing eye--
And, not dispraising whom we praised,--therein
Methinks he looks as though he were in love:
Bore many gentlemen, myself being one,
How art thou call'd? and what is thy degree?
A king's son! If I do not beat thee out of thy
that will use the devil himself with courtesy:
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
Where will the old duke live?
In vain! his service done
How, how, Cordelia! mend your speech a little,
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
How may I reverently worship thee enough?
With no less presence, but with much more love,
to me 'My honest friend Launcelot, being an honest
Beat--
You mistake; the musician likes me not.
Where it perceives it is but faintly borne.
Exeunt
To do offence and scath in Christendom.
To save your life in this extremity,
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
He'ld fetch us in; yet is't not probable
Sir, I know that well enough.
These banish'd men that I have kept withal
To watch the waning of mine adversaries.
No, no, no, no, no.
We put fresh garments on him.
she does so take on with her men; they mistook their erection.
Or I will fill the house with armed men,
I may not go without you to the kings.
To prove thou hast a true-divining heart,
My half-supp'd sword, that frankly would have fed,
Give guess how near to day. Lucius, I say!
'Faith, some do, and some do not. But, mistress, if
For I can smooth and fill his aged ear
If ever from your eyelids wiped a tear
Nay, I have done.
ACT II
Since I have my dukedom got
Exeunt
The matter being afoot, keep your instruction,
Bum, sir.
O Lewis, stand fast! the devil tempts thee here
Listen, fair madam: let it be your glory
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
For daring to affy a mighty lord
Went you not to her yesterday, sir, as you told me
My lord, you'll bear us company?
Desire them an to my pavilion.
It is the quality o' the climate.
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you:
Excuse me so, coming too short of thanks
Low-crooked court'sies and base spaniel-fawning.
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
Diomed,--
brawl: souls and bodies hath he divorced three; and
Knock at the gate! O heavens! Spake you not these
Wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus?
If you would not so,
O, odious is the name!
brother the new duke; and three or four loving lords
Which hath been smooth as oil, soft as young down,
For a fair victory.
Sir, she is mortal;
Or I attach you by this officer.
O my most sacred lady!
his treading: he is able to pierce a corslet with
The foul fiend bites my back.
[Within]  What, 's all the doors open here?
Good heart, at what?
That they may hold excus'd our lawless lives;
Dies
I reason'd with a Frenchman yesterday,
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs:
And if it please you, so; if not, why, so.
born to be hanged, our case is miserable.
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
It were but necessary you were waked,
Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus,
from this place, do what they can: I will walk up
Re-enter FRANCIS
Let thy courtesies alone, they are scurvy ones.
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.
Cannot conceive nor name thee!
ANTIPHOLUS
Whose hours the peasant best advantages.
but something
Break, heart; I prithee, break!
Madam, I would not wish a better father.
Misthink the king and not be satisfied!
wages followest thy master; thy master for wages
And let the queen know of our gests. To-morrow,
And this may help to thicken other proofs
Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,
Ay, worthy Menenius; and with most prosperous
So I, to find a mother and a brother,
Feeds in the bosom of such great commanders,
That appertain unto a burial.
Is still at Tarsus, where each man
me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
Come, the full stop.
Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
My lord so please you, these things further
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
Music
Which is--no, no--which was the fairest dame
But what says she to me? be brief, my good
The gods best know,--
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
For had I cursed now, I had cursed myself.
York set him on to fight and die in shame,
Her length of sickness, with what else more serious
[Within]  My lord , my lord! what, ho! my lord, my lord!
To wish myself much better; yet, for you
Or hailstone in the sun. Your virtue is
aqua-vitae bottle, or a thief to walk my ambling
Upon the British party: O, untimely death!
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Methought their souls, whose bodies Richard murder'd,
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
Although my seal be stamped in his face.
A goodly apple rotten at the heart:
Julietta with child.
I pray you.
Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
Now, my young guest, methinks you're allycholly: I
Shout. Flourish
And, after conflict such as was supposed
And stood within the blank of his displeasure
Farewell. Who shall answer him?
Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back,
Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love.
not been there--bless the mark!--a pissing while, but
Enter a Messenger
If after this command thou fraught the court
And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee;
A Daniel, still say I, a second Daniel!
too for your society.
thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy
and between these main parcels of dispatch effected
Sound a sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER,  CARDINAL, BUCKINGHAM, YORK, SOMERSET, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and the DUCHESS
Sound, trumpets; and set forward, combatants.
True; made the lame to leap and fly away.
Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss:
Enter OTHELLO
Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes
I praised her as I rated her: so do I my stone.
Yield to his humour, smooth and speak him fair,
His son am I; deny it, if you can.
You owe me no subscription: then let fall
Upon him as he pass'd: the nobles bended,
Pard, or boar with bristled hair,
That is not glad to see thee! You are three
To what tune pleased his ear; that now he was
Come, let's away. My love, give me thy lips.
These are complements, these are humours; these
What, would you have my weapon, little lord?
And truly yielded you. You're very welcome.
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
Which sways usurpingly these several titles,
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than
Unapt to stir at these indignities,
More than the nature of a brother's love!
Of that report which I so oft have heard.
Sweet youth, I pray you, chide a year together:
I would to God that the inclusive verge
From top of honour to disgrace's feet?
And in her train there is a gentle lady;
as great discreetly as we can.
overlooking. I have those hopes of her good that
Farewell till then: I will go lose myself
will: rich honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a
ANTIPHOLUS
Alarum. They fight, and PETER strikes him down
Is to the court, and there ye shall be my guests:
Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck,
Achievements, plots, orders, preventions,
There are my keys. But wherefore should I go?
You start away
Shall this our lofty scene be acted over
me a piece of marchpane; and, as thou lovest me, let
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
And at the pit of Acheron
What, art so near? If thou'lt see a thing to talk
The monk might be deceived; and that 'twas dangerous for him
Ha! Portia!
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers,
'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
But kill him rather. I'll after that same villain,
They smack of honour both. Go get him surgeons.
Piercing our Romans: then, valiant Titus, take
Of his true state.
Therefore, my loving lords, our pleasure is
O, is that all? What will you give me now
Or council has respect with him but he.
Make the prize light.
Shall send between the red rose and the white
Denied me to come in--return, and force
Despised in nativity,
And thou must make a dullard of the world,
When women cannot love where they're beloved!
Had been her husband rather than a Christian!
To EMILIA
But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four
Slaver with lips as common as the stairs
No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.
Or less,--at first?--perchance he spoke not, but,
O! thy vile lady!
To be a widow-maker! O, and there
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
Didst not thou share? hadst thou not fifteen pence?
Worthily purchased take my daughter: but
With purpose presently to leave this war.
Enter GONERIL
Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire, and stew'd in brine,
And so to study, three years is but short.
rash; then must we look to receive from his age,
Exit GARDINER
Are there such? such are not we: praise us as we
To cure thy o'er-night's surfeit? Call the creatures
By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
dish of stewed prunes; and, by my troth, I cannot
As a man sorely tainted, to his answer,
Mark it, Cesario, it is old and plain;
Out upon him! prig, for my life, prig: he haunts
All these are saved if thou wilt fly away.
Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
Time calls upon's:
And, yet brought forth less than a mother's hope,
I warrant thee; if I do not act it, hiss me.
Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.
Why, this it is; see, see!
I think it is: and doth affection breed it?
SCENE II. The forest.
Hear me, good brother.
Into his study of imagination,
not wounded? he was wont to come home wounded.
Exeunt some with Lord SAY
Fie, fie, Master Ford! are you not ashamed? What
Stay, Jaques, stay.
Enter SHYLOCK
And for three months.
Perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand,
If you be ta'en, we then should see the bottom
As full of spirit as the month of May,
In every wound of Caesar that should move
To do this outrage: and it now is done.
Let him approach: call in my gentlewoman.
I tell you 'tis not very well. I will make myself
Fair is foul, and foul is fair:
That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
Boil thou first i' the charmed pot.
Let's mock the midnight bell.
found so severe, that he hath forced me to tell him
With all swift speed you must away to France.
The noble Percy slain, and all his men
What, thou speak'st drowsily?
Which cannot in their huge and proper life
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away;
O, kill me too!
Peace, thou! and give King Henry leave to speak.
A mark! O, mark but that mark! A mark, says my lady!
That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy;
Advancing
To worthy danger and deserved death.
colour; some swooned, all sorrowed: if all the world
congealed ice; that I know to be true: and he is a
Shall't be to-night at supper?
O fie, fie, fie!
When Caesar's head is off.
From miserable slumber I awaked.
Of valiant Shirley, Stafford, Blunt, are in my arms:
It might have been recovered.
SCENE I. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
What mean these masterless and gory swords
The execution of my big-swoln heart
Now, the gods crown thee!
[Aside]  Heaven, that I had thy head! he has found
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
If he were dead, you'ld weep for
For then I pity those I do not know,
Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a
I'll write unto them and entreat them fair.
A thousand complete courses of the sun!
To weep there!
Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom, where no pity,
Tell Helicanus, my Marina, tell him
The elements be kind to thee, and make
lying: it becomes none but tradesmen, and they
Think on thy Proteus, when thou haply seest
No more than my residing here at Rome
Pieces of gold 'gainst this which then he wore
Compassion on the king commands me stoop;
Acordo linta.
Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
Here's a young maid with travel much oppress'd
To leave me but a little to myself.
To blow on whom I please; for so fools have;
And makes a god of such a cullion:
I know it, uncle, and oppose not myself
Kept him a foreign man still; which so grieved him,
But by contempt of nature.
I'll throw thy body in another room
And can digest as much: make no compare
Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings,
Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
What will be said? what mockery will it be,
And wilt thou have a reason for this coil?
But now I see this one is one too much,
I never in my life did look on him.
Ha! a fat woman! the knight may be robbed: I'll
Upon the heels of my presentment, sir.
Resolvedly more leisure shall express:
Write thou good niece; and here display, at last,
Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
What, master, read you? first resolve me that.
Look up a-height; the shrill-gorged lark so far
And that he does I weep: myself am Naples,
'twill out at the key-hole; stop that, 'twill fly
Make me to see't; or, at the least, so prove it,
these exhalations?
And fix most firm thy resolution.
By my faith,
two!
It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
Horses did neigh, and dying men did groan,
No, since.
not well done?
They are, as all my other comforts, far hence
And without trial fell; God's peace be with him!
This expedition was by York and Talbot
Since this fortune falls to you,
Assail them with the army of the king.
Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
Fall fellowly drops. The charm dissolves apace,
Than I to your highness; who, being born your vassal,
Nay then you jest, and now I well perceive
Soldiers, away with him!
The fewer men, the greater share of honour.
With looking on his life.
To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue--
'hic jacet.'
Are you all resolved to give your voices? But
Consider, lords, he is the next of blood,
motions. Shall I lose my parson, my priest, my Sir
Hath kill'd the flock of all affections else
Insinuation, parley and base truce
Sennet. Exeunt
[To DUKE SENIOR]  To you I give myself, for I am yours.
Great Hector was a man as good as he.
the dawning as we do.
return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep.
And tells us, what occasion of import
I beseech you, be not so phlegmatic. Hear the truth
Or like an overcharged gun, recoil,
First, she confess'd she never loved you, only
That was my wife's?
But Athenian found I none,
Awake! what, ho, Brabantio! thieves! thieves! thieves!
What, and from Troilus too?
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
This viperous traitor: to eject him hence
Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.
I prithee, give me leave to curse awhile.
How now! is he dead already? or is it fear
The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
Mistress Ford. Now shall I sin in my wish: I would
man if you see him?
Under your hard construction must I sit,
What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should
The day shall not be up so soon as I,
And keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
Been what he knew himself, it had gone well:
That will be ere the set of sun.
We'll do thee homage and be ruled by thee,
And, among three, to love the worst of all;
Your nose says, no, you are not for it stands too right.
not pocket up wrong: art thou not ashamed?
between, but small thanks for my labour.
the supportance of his vow; he protests he will not hurt you.
Had borne the business!'
As I by friends am well advertised,
To feed again, though full. You do remember
To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
Have smit my credit: I love and honour him,
And made your other love, Demetrius,
Enter Prince, attended; MONTAGUE, CAPULET, their Wives, and others
Sorry am I his numbers are so few,
With the memorials and the things of fame
Shall more obey than to the edge of steel
I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it
obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold
Come, my Marina.
Even with his pestilent scythe.
fourscore ducats!
SCENE III. Bosworth Field.
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
Away, slight man!
To look into this business thoroughly
I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.
Thanks, fortune, yet, that, after all my crosses,
She's punish'd for her truth, and undergoes,
They will, then, ere't be long.
Either you must
That you do lie so late?
and what he hath scanted men in hair he hath given them in wit.
e, b, t, not d, e, t: he clepeth a calf, cauf;
Even so
Re-enter LAFEU, with HELENA
shift a trencher? he scrape a trencher!
I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.
Heavily, heavily:
Some report a sea-maid spawned him; some, that he
True, noble prince.
Enter BASSANIO, with LEONARDO and other followers
In eye of Caesar's battle; from which place
As he hath followed you, with all despite;
Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick, peace,
For Edward's sake; and see how he requites me!
Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage.'
as she is and without any danger.
I pray you.
Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak.
O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear,
So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons;
Nay, weep not, gentle Eros; there is left us
As I remember, this should be the house.
She may, my lord, for--
I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
But other of your insolent retinue
Freely to render what we have in charge;
that I know you are a gentleman of good conceit: I
That, when he waked, of force she must be eyed.
To a hair.
Your most grave belly was deliberate,
That thou so oft have boasted to retain?
No, not for Venice.
That bore thee at a burden two fair sons:
Come in, Titinius!
The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
He says he does, being then most flattered.
Let it not cumber your better remembrance.
me but as a common man; witness the night, your
Fiend, thou torment'st me ere I come to hell!
To Gregory de Cassado, to conclude,
From year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes,
Mercury, lose all the serpentine craft of thy
Insisting on the old prerogative
What craker is this same that deafs our ears
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
sheet of paper: my daughter tells us all.
Some Neapolitan, or meaner man of Pisa.
Exit
Presenting me a schedule! I will read it.
Let all of his complexion choose me so.
COUNTESS
She'ld come again, and with a greedy ear
I did; I saw him dead,
The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
To our own vantage.
I prithee, boy, run to the senate-house;
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
But yet, methinks, my father's execution
Go you before to Gloucester with these letters.
There is no harm intended to your person,
If this were so, so were it uttered.
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
Enter PRINCE, with Attendants
Has he, masters?
O God! if my deep prayers cannot appease thee,
That you are fool'd, discarded and shook off
Studied so long, sat in the council-house
O wicked wall, through whom I see no bliss!
Music within
is not vain-glory for a man and his glass to confer
Villain, I have done thy mother.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Make up no factious
And fought the holy wars in Palestine,
Exeunt ELBOW, POMPEY and Officers
Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance
What offends you, lady?
Is this great Agamemnon's tent, I pray you?
Which by a vision sent to her from heaven
Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans
First trumpet
Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive
Nothing so kind, but something pitiful!
DON
Sir Valentine, your father's in good health:
Shows a ring
Lament till I am lost.
As you'll have her.
ANTIPHOLUS
The life of Tybalt.
Then do but say to me what I should do
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
Is this the man? Is't you, sir, that know things?
Spotted, detested, and abominable.
But so it must be, if the king miscarry.
No more to undertake it, I will work him
Exit
In himself he is;
And make your peace with Caesar.
Where are my tears? rain, to lay this wind, or
Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here:
Or pay you with unthankfulness in thought,
Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete,
Sweet soul, let's in, and there expect their coming.
Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
Arm, arm, my lord;--Rome never had more cause.
Honey, and milk, and sugar; there is three.
Who's there? what's the matter? will you beat
ANTIPHOLUS
Have after. To what issue will this come?
My lord of Gloucester hath convey'd him hence:
man denies, you are now bound to believe him.
Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
Had been dishabited, and wide havoc made
At requiring;
The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you,
Bear mine to him, and so depart in peace:
LAVINIA turns over with her stumps the books which LUCIUS has let fall
I pray thee, do on them some violent death;
Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart!
Ay, my good lord.
reserve it, how shall's get it?
selling the dukedom of Maine.
'Mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst!
Think but this, and all is mended,
The fall'n-off Britons, that we do incite
That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
I am hers:
farewell, bastard.
[Aside to ANTONIO]  The next advantage
Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke.
Out at mine eyes in tender womanish tears.
saved me my pains, to have taken it away yourself.
Ill-favouredly become the morning field:
To give me hearing.
Exit
And makes each petty artery in this body
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
What think you on't?
Music plays, and they dance
Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me:
Nor I neither.
And so far blameless proves my enterprise,
I pray you, sir, what is he?
I doubt whether their legs be worth the sums
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,
The Duke of Exeter doth love thee well.
Even as one heat another heat expels,
To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus
Why, hear you, my masters: was it for me to kill the
I am resolved to bear a greater storm
that you have suffered, I think to repay that money
amongst you as suits, with gentlemen of your
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
And thither will I bring thee, Valentine.
Will not go from my mind; I have much to do,
But will my Rosalind do so?
To sound the purpose of all their hearts,
That dogg'd the mighty army of the Dauphin?
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar:
Besides, his expedition promises
good grace.
Master Page, as I am a man, there was one conveyed
To keep in darkness what occasion now
O sir, such a life, with such a wife, were strange!
The penitent instrument to pick that bolt,
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
Exit
Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to
He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
O heavy ignorance! thou praisest the worst best.
But where the bull and cow are both milk-white,
But mine and mine I loved and mine I praised
Who's there?
The washing of ten tides!
Are you acquainted with the difference
Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir,
He has deserved it, were it carbuncled
Exit
Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope,
Might thus have stood begetting wonder as
By flatterers; and what they will inform,
When you yourself did part them.
I have not heard examined.
And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
In, fellow, there, into the hovel: keep thee warm.
I'll follow you, and tell what answer
Pray you, arise,
Be you content, fair maid;
And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
Away, you fool! it more becomes a man
Forth of my heart those charms, thine eyes, are blotted;
You need it not.
The cordial of mine age to glad my heart!
I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves
Varro's Servant	Hang him, he'll abuse us.
My ransom is this frail and worthless trunk,
For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.
Our uncle York lord governor of England;
Which is not tomb enough and continent
My horse, my ox, my ass, my any thing;
Protect mine innocence, or I fall into
He that stirs next to carve for his own rage
And prays the Moor be safe; for they were parted
Why, look you, how you storm!
To credit his own lie, he did believe
Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler?
Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome,
And wake the emperor and his lovely bride
To his most royal person, hither come
Which, you say, live to come in my behalf.
If that the soldier strike him, as I judge
When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste
This day I breathed first: time is come round,
To be a speaker free; when I am hence
Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch
So sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not
Call me their traitor! Thou injurious tribune!
for, sure, unless he know some strain in me, that I
He's opposite to humanity. Come, shall we in,
My fairy lord, this must be done with haste,
And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike:
Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
Enter COMINIUS
Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity.
With all my heart, good youth.
Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?
For our affairs in hand: if that come short,
I will fetch off my bottle, though I be o'er ears
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
While I, their king, that hither them importune,
'nointed over with honey, set on the head of a
Pernicious protector, dangerous peer,
Of her society
Nor night nor day no rest: it is but weakness
Claudio to prison? 'tis not so.
fob off our disgrace with a tale: but, an 't please
My ever-gentle cousin, welcome hither.
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
I did not well I meant well. All my services
Dost thou in conscience think,--tell me, Emilia,--
This is, sure, Fidele.
Had ever scar for.
Not?
Yes, yes; the lines are very quaintly writ;
flatter me that thou dost, notwithstanding the poor
She should have died hereafter;
Enter ANTONIO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
Into the hands of one that loves you not;
Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
I'll thither: what thing is it that I never
time of lethargy I picked and cut most of their
not strike the old woman.
Of his behavior.
But, O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart,
lads, I am glad you have the money. Hostess, clap
When it deserves, with characters of brass,
Hight Philoten: and it is said
Acquainted me with interest to this land,
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
waiting-gentlewoman in the 'scape. This has been
we will draw the curtain and show you the picture.
What shall we do else? were we not born under Taurus?
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world? That's twice.
Talbot is taken, whom we wont to fear:
Fear not that, I warrant thee. Come, let's march
set this counterfeit.
I saw her once
Enter, from the brothel, two Gentlemen
Brought them to be lamented. Our army shall
Feed arrogance and are the proud man's fees.
That living wrought me such exceeding trouble.
All gather to see them
Containing the deposing of a king
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
shall hear more by midnight.
Hail, sir! my lord, lend ear.
The wrong I did myself; which was so much,
She had just cause.
For more uneven and unwelcome news
In the whole world: but yet let me lament,
Farewell.
Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
ever since kept Hector fasting and waking.
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
transgression is in the stealer.
To see the enclosed lights, now canopied
All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth,
Indeed, I was their tutor to instruct them:
Come, go with me apart; I will withdraw,
To Persia, and want guilders for my voyage:
epilogue, or to hear a Bergomask dance between two
Did shake down mellow fruit.
That's a fault that water will mend.
That, upon knowledge of my parentage,
He is well paid that is well satisfied;
But what shall I gain by young Arthur's fall?
good friend Trinculo.
And could command no more content than I?
I am a man again. Pray you, sit still.
Letters from him! why comes he not himself?
I pray for no man but myself:
Makes me the better to confer with thee.
Was the Hero that here lies:
I mean to prove this lady's courtesy.
It did me good, before the palace gate
[Within]  Francis!
As proofs of holy writ: this may do something.
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
No, no, I will not, having breath to cry:
Well, say I am; why should proud summer boast
Advance our standards, set upon our foes
And mothers that lack sons.
counterfeitly; that is, sir, I will counterfeit the
O, here he comes.
Feast at my house, and he shall feast with them.
My lord, old Sir John, with half-a-dozen more, are
Your wisdom best shall think.
Lord of Salisbury!
By heaven, my heart is purged from grudging hate:
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in
At such a time, with all the rest retold,
Below the beam of sight, yet will I still
That he quit being, and his gentle lady,
Let us go.
of three several deaths; first, an intolerable
Than thou the shadow of succession;
find when he comes home. But what talk I of this?
If I in thought felt not her very sorrow!
reason it thus and thus, yet nature finds itself
I'll give you Aquitaine and all that is his,
O, they did urge it still unto the king!
Is all unpossible.
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
There is among the Greeks Achilles, a better man than Troilus.
As these before thee thou thyself shalt bleed.
A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth,
A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.
No might nor greatness in mortality
Of Blithild, which was daughter to King Clothair,
Now the gods keep you!
Here comes Thersites.
They promised me eternal happiness;
No, I'll not be your half
Nobler than my revolt is infamous,
On horror's head horrors accumulate;
For us, we will consider of this further:
Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.
But what was true and very full of proof.
It is my wretched fortune.
Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life
From his allegiance to an heretic;
And all by thee. Away! convey him hence.
Pray you, a word.
Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good
To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves:
Re-enter AEMILIA, with ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated:
I am not merry; but I do beguile
At our entreaties, to amend that fault!
That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.
Exeunt
most vilely in the afternoon, when he is drunk: when
Though thanks to all, must I select
To withhold the vengeance that they had in store,
I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.
[Aside to CLAUDIO]  You are a villain; I jest not:
God's wrong is most of all.
Enter SATURNINUS, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON,  Lords, and others; SATURNINUS with the arrows in his hand that TITUS shot
To follow as it draws! I'll to my brother:
They fight
Even as our days do grow!
But she would spell him backward: if fair-faced,
To WARWICK
Stand for your own; unwind your bloody flag;
me an officer; bespeak him a fortnight before. I
A letter for me! it gives me an estate of seven
For few men rightly temper with the stars:
Et vous aussi; votre serviteur.
Blue, my lord.
Attending nature's law:
of the chamber. How many masters would do this for
Let there be sung 'Non nobis' and 'Te Deum;'
Fie! charity, for shame! speak not in spite,
Exeunt KING LEAR, KENT, and Attendants
Did claim some certain dukedoms, in the right
Ay, marry, is't.
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,
I fear me you but warm the starved snake,
Is your perfection. This is Timon's last;
Speak, brother, hast thou hurt thee with the fall?
And nothing more, may fitly like your grace,
knew the service, and that instructed him to mercy.
By thy dame Partlet here. Take up the bastard;
Write from it, if you can, in hand or phrase;
Of all complexions the cull'd sovereignty
How is the king employ'd?
shook your back.
Than that which hath no foil to set it off.
We must forbear: here comes the gentleman,
Exeunt
most coldest that ever turned up ace.
But that thy face is, vizard-like, unchanging,
Lead forth and bring you back in happiness!
Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
Among them know you one Vincentio?
Out of the way, that your converse and business
But the Norweyan lord surveying vantage,
If not a usuring kindness, and, as rich men deal gifts,
Stick deep; and in his royalty of nature
For I have seen our enemies' overthrow.
To love my father all.
How say you to that, Malvolio?
will tell you.
All broken implements of a ruin'd house.
to old shoes; when they are in great danger, I
Of his fair mistress: in the afternoon
Why, how now, Stephano!
How now, Lorenzo!
SCENE III. Another room In the castle.
For 'tis most dangerous.
For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
My lord the king, the king!
Shall daub her lips with her own children's blood;
That late he married--hath referr'd herself
I should not see the sandy hour-glass run,
Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current.
Exeunt
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER, and CELIA
mark the sequel, Master Brook: I suffered the pangs
No more, gentlemen, no more:--here comes my father.
Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick the
Our gracious brother, I will go with them:
I every day expect an embassage
In rank Achilles must or now be cropp'd,
If I have fewest, I subscribe in silence.
And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,
God and King Henry govern England's realm.
That carries no impression like the dam.
With groans that thunder love, with sighs of fire.
And overlooks the highest-peering hills;
Hath show'd him gold; my life is spann'd already:
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
How blest am I
You'll kiss me hard and speak to me as if
No, no; you must play Pyramus: and, Flute, you Thisby.
That wishing well had not a body in't,
Who glared upon me, and went surly by,
Strikes him again
Didst thou behold Octavia?
Of what I feel: I am all patience.
And therefore may be broke without offence.
a goodly count, Count Comfect; a sweet gallant,
After our sentence plaining comes too late.
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault
Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
Therefore each one betake him to his rest;
When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous,
Enter IMOGEN, in boy's clothes
Dost dialogue with thy shadow?
Exeunt all except SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
the best and the fairest, that would have won any
What's your affair I pray you?
Two bosoms interchained with an oath;
With all my heart, gentlemen both; and how fare you?
Thou art past the tyrant's stroke;
As is the night before some festival
Hermione hath suffer'd death, and that
What is it, but to make thy sepulchre
Welcome, Publius.
Let hell want pains enough to torture me.
Cousin, farewell: no further go in this
None good, my lord, to please you with the hearing;
The king my father did in Tarsus leave me;
What's there?
Into a goodly bulk: good time encounter her!
A messenger from the Lord Stanley.
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs;
And made you to suspect me with the Moor.
And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
The battles of the Lord of hosts he fought:
They have all new legs, and lame ones: one would take it,
I will believe you by the syllable
And to my state grew stranger, being transported
news too: Marullus and Flavius, for pulling scarfs
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
Enter a Herald with a proclamation; People following
To be his groom: thou wert dignified enough,
You are too hot.
Noise within
Ever to conquer, and to have his worth
Madam, you wrong the king's love with these fears:
Breaks out to savage madness. Look he stirs:
Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.'
And good reason; for thereby is England mained, and
We took this mattock and this spade from him,
the fury of his heart, when the foul fiend rages,
I see before me, man: nor here, nor here,
Now hear me speak with a prophetic spirit;
Enter KATHARINE and ALICE
Know you the quality of Lord Timon's fury?
Woe to the land that's govern'd by a child!
Nay, take them.
Come, wife, let's in, and learn to govern better;
I would appeach him.
How might we disguise him?
Ay, marry, what is he?
them no longer than yesterday: a very honest woman,
encounter any such, apprehend him, an thou dost me love.
To kings that fear their subjects' treachery?
plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his
The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
world's pleasure and the increase of laughter.
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
the spirit of putting down kings and princes,
What plain proceeding is more plain than this?
Kneels
fain think it were not.
There's few or none do know me: if they did,
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds,
welcome. I had rather be a beggar's dog than Apemantus.
that cannot go, sweet Isis, I beseech thee! and let
And though you took his life, as being our foe,
to their charge.
For aye thy foot-licker.
If thou didst put this sour-cold habit on
And hasten your return.
Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
Answer every man directly.
him to prison! Where is the provost? Away with him
Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
Or something hath the nothing that I grieve:
The special head of all the land together:
Why, I'll tell you: this is called Pentapolis, and
Music, make their welcome!
questions?
Gone! they went hence so soon as they were born:
No lady closer; for I well believe
'Shylock, we would have moneys:' you say so;
In which array, brave soldier, doth he lie,
Where the place?
At length, another ship had seized on us;
The spirit of wantonness is, sure, scared out of
I pray thee lend me thy lantern, to see my gelding
Your majesty entendre bettre que moi.
to the yielding, had I admittance and opportunity to friend.
Throw over her the veil of infamy:
To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat
Your friends at Pomfret, they do need the priest;
Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
will come this way by and by, and then we may deliver
I am sorry to hear this.
to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a
Against those honours deep and broad wherewith
And many an error by the same example
To speak and purpose not; since what I well intend,
Shall seize one half his goods; the other half
Soft, Caesar!
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
Exit
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst
When I will wear a garment all of blood
have you that charitable title from thousands, did
Pause, if thou wilt.
Were but his picture left amongst you here,
And to you all, good health.
Bianca's grief.
Of none but him; and swears he was carried out, the
No marvel, an it like your majesty,
Who here hath lain these two days buried.
Therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness
Renounce your soil, give sheep in lions' stead:
That Time comes stealing on by night and day?
The rest--hark in thine ear--as black as incest:
Till they have snared the shepherd of the flock,
to bed betimes. Does not our life consist of the
With strife to please you, day exceeding day:
Till thou art here aloft, or I below:
No? then I well perceive you all not nigh
To marry her, I'll add three thousand crowns
I say it is the moon.
write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
finger in the fire, and need not.
That gives not half so great a blow to hear
Knew you not Pompey? Many a time and oft
Bardolph, be blithe: Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins:
Are these the breed of wits so wonder'd at?
Stand we in good array; for they no doubt
We are amazed; and thus long have we stood
that thou wilt not be drunk; but I know thou art no
I pray thee, leave me to my self to-night,
These are a side that would be glad to have
Here at my house and at my proper cost.
As enemy to the people and his country:
'Thou shalt not steal'?
And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness,
The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts
Ay, Biddy, come with me. What, man! 'tis not for
THE MADLY-USED MALVOLIO.'
Brother, take you my land, I'll take my chance.
Men at some time are masters of their fates:
A stone is silent, and offendeth not,
And all cry, Hector! Hector's dead! O Hector!
or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never cheapen her;
That Caesar will not grant. O, I grow faint.
A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in
Ay, 'twas he that told me first:
Exit
The misplaced John should entertain an hour,
Whose souls are not corrupted as 'tis thought.
The passion of loud laughter never shed.
Such fear so grew in me, I hither fled,
And in our name, what she requires; add more,
Alive and dead, and for their brethren slain
And did you leave him in this contemplation?
Thou hadst an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
But they did say their prayers, and address'd them
His horses go about.
No more than he'll unswear.
creatures; their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage.
As there is no firm reason to be render'd,
Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
And does the meanest chares. It were for me
How intend you, practised?
[Aside]  These be fine things, an if they be
Doth make an earthquake of nobility.
comondy a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?
Vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman,
But, more of thy news?
if I were the parson. One in ten, quoth a'! An we
'T has done, upon the premises, but justice:
You'll part away disgraced.
I am, my lord, as well derived as he,
O, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth,
And I must be from thence!
shoulder, the mole in my neck, the great wart on my
And then I swore thee, saving of thy life,
That's as we list to grace him.
The gods withhold me!
complaints, and to deliver us from devices
Go, bear them hence; I will not hear them speak.
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham
And a true lover of the holy church.
Would they were multitudes, and on my head
Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to
betwixt a benefit and an injury, I never found man
A parley sounded
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
dog, a mule, a cat, a fitchew, a toad, a lizard, an
To offer service to your enemy,
I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health of you.
Prick him down, Antony.
My name, my good lord, is Parolles.
duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest
She will attend it better in thy youth
For any or for all these exercises,
I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spakest it
His friends still wrought reprieves for him: and,
[Seeing BIONDELLO]
You have stayed me in a happy hour: I was about to
So did we woo
I named my knell, whilst I sit meditating
shall be encountered with a man as good as himself:
O yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
Look bleak i' the cold wind: withal, full oft we see
alone with him: if I do not gull him into a
Yonder is Silvia; and Silvia's mine.
honour? a word. What is in that word honour? what
O, know you yet, he doth it publicly,
Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted,
Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind
Full fourteen weeks before the course of time.
To offer it the show of violence;
With all my heart
So, prithee, go with me.
SCENE IV. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
Therefore no more turn me to him, sweet Nan.
Ay, my continent of beauty.
Bring forth these men.
makes a man a coward: a man cannot steal, but it
Our duty this way lies; for God's sake come.
Did triumph in my face, and they are fled;
And here will rest me.
And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
Than death can yield me here by my abode.
A bawbling vessel was he captain of,
Of earned praise, Marina's life
I know not how I shall assure you further,
the head, and three times was his nose discharged
Art thou here yet?
From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash
have missingly noted, he is of late much retired
and seen the spider.
Good ancestors.
let us call thee devil!
No leisure had he to enrank his men;
What ho, Malvolio!
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
I marvel why her grace did leave it out.
The archdeacon hath divided it
Or shall we cut away our hands, like thine?
What can man's wisdom
And we must sleep.
But with my breath I can revive it, boy.
Caesar: and that, having in Sicily
It is a sleepy language and thou speak'st
What a brazen-faced varlet art thou, to deny thou
That seeks dispatch by day.
We are blest that Rome is rid of him.
Enter an English Herald
For being now a favourer to the Briton,
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not.
You conjure from the breast of civil peace
You should not blemish it, if I stood by:
She is so self-endeared.
But as you shake off one to take another;
Cry, Cock-a-diddle-dow.
Go you before, and I will follow you.
Away, away! for he is coming hither.
On pain to be found false and recreant,
And witch the world with noble horsemanship.
I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey;
Is partly to behold my lady's face;
This is the strangest tale that ever I heard.
Will serve the turn.
As dim and meagre as an ague's fit,
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
Yet he most Christian-like laments his death:
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible
By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.
Attend upon Cominius to these wars.
Say we intend to try his grace to-day.
And cloister thee in some religious house:
for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and
And forth my mimic comes. When they him spy,
It is your pleasure to command me in.
What majesty should be, what duty is,
Before you all, appeal unto the pope,
In confutation of which rude reproach
Faith, here it is.
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
For we were subjects but while you were king.
May they perceive's intent! He will require them,
the letter?
within these two hours; and so, come in when ye will.
brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
We were not all unkind, nor all deserve
Though you hear now, too late--yet now's a time--
Sweet mistress--what your name is else, I know not,
And every one with claps can sound,
Points to WILLIAMS. Exeunt Heralds with Montjoy
Thou art no Atlas for so great a weight:
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
Why tell you me of moderation?
You shall have wine enough, my lord, anon.
What one, my lord?
That thou art even natural in thine art.
I cannot but remember such things were,
He was your enemy, ever spake against
Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown,
[Aside]
shall I be revenged on him? for revenged I will be,
to him. But I can tell you one thing, my lord, and
And, when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
And that she has discharged: what thou wouldst do
The first that there did greet my stranger soul,
And to revenge thine eyes. Come hither, friend:
out of order. Come, march forward.
or not I the detector!
Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so,
infidel! Ha! you shall see now in very sincerity
It is great sin to swear unto a sin,
We are not here. That you should here repent you,
prince of chivalry!
O comfortable friar! where is my lord?
Your infants in your arms, and there have sat
Why, madam, have I offer'd love for this
I threaten'd to discover him: he replied,
'C fa ut,' that loves with all affection:
You patch'd up your excuses.
are sick. There is a man haunts the forest, that
O, ye're well met: the hoarded plague o' the gods
Enter a Messenger
Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,
And critic Timon laugh at idle toys!
[To ISABELLA]  If he be like your brother, for his sake
O England! model to thy inward greatness,
the most sufficient of your parish.
What are these faces?
be pardoned.
He thus should steal upon us.
Meetest for death: the weakest kind of fruit
Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down;
She that I spake of, our great captain's captain,
And minister correction to thy fault!
By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo,
While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York
A gilt nutmeg.
To foster it, nor ever to preserve.
And turn you all your hatred now on me?
before her wedding-day: if you love her then,
Marry,
I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
He kiss'd,--the last of many doubled kisses,--
What say'st thou, Henry, wilt thou yield the crown?
Would I had never trod this English earth,
Let us look in; the sight will much delight thee.
And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing:
Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates,
Or why thou, being a subject as I am,
First, the gods bless you for your tidings; next,
What say'st thou, ha?
As if a double hunt were heard at once,
And my estate deserves an heir more raised
Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
Why, all the souls that were were forfeit once;
Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
My gentleman, Cesario?
For hunting was his daily exercise.
So may it be, indeed:
By any likelihood he show'd to-day?
10. Certain Ladies or Countesses, with plain
A gentle cousin, were it light enough.
And would not dash me with their ragged sides,
That longing have been sick for, ere I'ld yield
I'll tell him of you.
in flesh and blood.
Exit
What are they that would speak with me?
Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
If further yet you will be satisfied,
The like himself. Therefore give me no counsel:
Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee: thy eyes
She can scarce be there yet.
Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.
Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
Descends
Thou speakest wonders.
Aaron, thou hast hit it.
But you say she's honest.
Is Banquo gone from court?
Finely put on, indeed!
He were no lion, were not Romans hinds.
love a ballad but even too well, if it be doleful
Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need,--
This is the fool that lent out money gratis:
Yes, madam, fair.
Of homage and I know not how much tribute,
But nakedness, thou detestable town!
light, the purse too light, being drawn of
Though my revenges were high bent upon him,
And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we
Music and a song within: 'Come away, come away,'  and c
Enter TROILUS
Is run in your displeasure.
We must both give and take, my gracious lord.
To cheque their folly, passion's solemn tears.
Not he that himself is not so; which is Mark Antony.
And then I need not crave his courtesy.
now. I shall crave your forbearance a little: may
Great happiness!
votarist: you have told me she hath received them
Did broach this business to your highness; or
Find him, and bring him hither.
But Brutus says he was ambitious;
Are my discourses dull? barren my wit?
How far off lie these armies?
Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
You may not, my lord, despise her gentle suit.
Stain my man's cheeks! No, you unnatural hags,
Convey them with safe conduct. Fare you well.
Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
For it must seem their guilt.
How now, Mephostophilus!
More like a soldier than a man o' the church,
Why, in good time.
Tush, tush, man; never fleer and jest at me:
The man is noble and his fame folds-in
I am barr'd, like one infectious. My third comfort
Exit
but for smelling out the odouriferous flowers of
On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
him once again, and then I will tell him a little
First will I see the coronation;
Whither the queen intends. Forward; away!
With the green sickness.
Enter CHARLES and JOAN LA PUCELLE
wraths, and his cholers, and his moods, and his
Out of a fortitude of soul I feel,
She will be pleased; then wherefore should I doubt?
The king hath run bad humours on the knight; that's
Ay, so true love should do: it cannot speak;
Then think you right: I am not what I am.
With a more riotous appetite.
As I am son and servant to your will,
And cased as richly; in pace another Juno;
Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and you peers,
To the king's ship, invisible as thou art:
Give me another horse: bind up my wounds.
By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to
Stand, stand, thou Greek; thou art a goodly mark:
To mend her kissing with!
That turn'd your wit the seamy side without,
my master and mistress are almost frozen to death.
appelez-vous le col?
My lord, I know not what the matter is; but, to my
He threw his wounded arm and kiss'd his lips;
By wasting ruin of the cruel foe.
Body o' me, where is it?
Exeunt
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
What's this but libelling against the senate,
See where she comes, apparell'd like the spring,
Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes?
Jack, meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two
I am best pleased to be from such a deed.
Her peerless feature, joined with her birth,
Men give like gods; but when they weep and kneel,
Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
O notable strumpet! Cassio, may you suspect
Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains
Amen.
Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his cousin
And hath been from his youth: pray you, keep seat;
Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music.
Alter thy course for Tyre. When canst thou reach it?
For he tonight shall lie with Mistress Ford.
Which your own coffers yield! with diseased ventures
The king hath straitly charged the contrary.
And find the welcome of a noble foe.
No; and swears she never will: that's her torment.
As it hath used to do, that I have found
That Silvia, at Friar Patrick's cell, should meet me.
How France and Frenchmen might be kept in awe,
an honourable man.
Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
To whom the foragers shall all repair,
Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this:
No marvel, then, though he were ill affected:
That love's keen arrows make.
For she was yielded there.
One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure;
And banding themselves in contrary parts
smile with an austere regard of control,--
Troilus! why, he esteems her no more than I esteem
To slay thy brother Abel, if thou wilt.
Our whole city is much bound to him.
christom child; a' parted even just between twelve
For then, 'tis like I should forget myself:
And surely as I live, I am a maid.
Swoons rather; for so bad a prayer as his
Shall see their children kind.
Exit BARDOLPH
no black envy
SCENE III. A lonely part of the forest.
Put pardon, father Nestor, were your days
The mysteries of Hecate, and the night;
But take the High'st to witness: then, pray you, tell me,
Why, whither shall we go?
Thus do go about, about:
shall beat out my brains with billets: I will not
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame.
Your compensation makes amends, for I
above. Now, my masters, for a true face and good
I would not wish them to a fairer death:
Such is his noble purpose; and believe 't,
Exeunt all but PETRUCHIO
Had that was well worth watching--it was hang'd
We still have judgment here; that we but teach
Our lodgings, standing bleak upon the sea,
The appetites they feed: but she makes hungry
Some say, that though she appear honest to me, yet in
To put on yellow stockings and to frown
himself could not have prevented, if he had been
Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported?
false thanes,
Well, you'll answer this one day. Fare ye well.
I will, when you are humble; nay, before,
particular duties afterwards.
but duteous, and true preferment shall tender itself
Whose pitchy mantle over-veil'd the earth.
Aside
and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says,
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be
and I'll be merry in my revenge.
Journeys end in lovers meeting,
Go, take hence that traitor from our sight;
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY and a Welsh Captain
His corrigible neck, his face subdued
Judas I am,--
You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves!
O me! this sight of death is as a bell,
I assure you, Carthage.
Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided,
That I require a clearness: and with him--
must, for my own honour, if he come in: therefore,
none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms;
It will determine one way: fare you well.
Then in plain terms tell her my loving tale.
His promises were, as he then was, mighty;
imposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who I
hast thou a mark to thyself, like an honest
In your close patience.
It waves me still.
Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own?
Could have persuaded me: now I dare not say
What was your dream? I long to hear you tell it.
Lives, honours, lands and all hurry to loss.
Re-enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, with JOAN LA PUCELLE
The great prerogative and rite of love,
As does a Briton peasant: so I'll fight
You may not deny it: Pompey hath made the challenge.
even now into my hand by an under-skinker, one that
A traitor to my God, my king, and me:
Under device and practise.
beat it out of my hat: did you see my jewel?
It had been so with us, had we been there:
there's laying on, take't off who will, as they say:
Among the Italian gentry, and to fight
Inhabits here: some heavenly power guide us
Under the colour of his usual game,
So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
Have overthrown him.
What, are they dead?
Enter GOWER
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjured,
writ, and can never find what names the writing
As the indifferent children of the earth.
A bare-ribb'd death, whose office is this day
They have their nourishment?
So seems this gorgeous beauty to mine eyes.
The tyranny of the open night's too rough
To put a strange face on his own perfection.
SCENE I. The Abbey at Bury St. Edmund's.
Might in the ground be closed up in rest!
Hast stol'n it from her?
We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
And Westmoreland, that was engaged, did bear it;
And tragical, my noble lord, it is;
hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare
Of common ounces? will you with counters sum
Which is the better man, the greater throw
Good my liege, I come;
Who's there?
By one that looks on feeders?
As 'longeth to a lover's blessed case!
But mine I am sure thou art, whoe'er thou be,
For I have had such faults; but rather tell me,
Thanks, noble Clarence; worthy brother, thanks.
For Anjou and fair Touraine, Maine, Poictiers,
Which on more view, of many mine being one
Heat me these irons hot; and look thou stand
[Aside]  To be whipped; and yet a better love than
For shape, for bearing, argument and valour,
speak for himself.
To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
And doth beget new courage in our breasts.
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
And stop this gap of breath with fulsome dust
That every wretch, pining and pale before,
Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
To feed for aye her ramp and flames of love;
Before I saw you; and the world's large tongue
Away, my masters! trouble us no more;
Do you smell a fault?
What might we do to make the girl forget
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.
Such as I am, I come from Antony:
Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears.
And break your own neck down.
Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always loved
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
Shall, after three days' open penance done,
So I lose none
Her hair, what colour?
Set forth in your pursuit.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
Therefore, my lord, go travel for a while,
More mild, but yet more harmful, kind in hatred:
And all the priests and friars in my realm
What husband in thy power I will command:
I will look further into't. But where's my fool? I
Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome:
And thought they Margaret was Hero?
back again.
Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much;
Troubles the silver spring where England drinks.
And, look, when I am king, claim thou of me
We shall remain in friendship, our conditions
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
And charged us from his soul to love each other,
We charge you, in the prince's name, stand!
O, my lord, my lord! the sheriff with a most
That is too much presumption on thy part:
Carried to Colmekill,
Ford's wife: use your art of wooing; win her to
Her that so wishes and her humble love!
Why, what an intricate impeach is this!
Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour,
This letter, then, to Friar Peter give;
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
Making the mother, wife and child to see
Exeunt
I'll get me one of such another length.
Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me.
My conscience first received a tenderness,
As Owen Glendower for an enemy.
Lychorida, no tears:
But as the unthought-on accident is guilty
Base is the slave that pays.
Which challenges itself as honour's born
A flatterer's would not, though they do appear
Never yet did base dishonour blur our name,
Now, by my sceptre's awe, I make a vow,
And so adieu, sweet Jude! nay, why dost thou stay?
As yours was put into you, ever casts
Like a full-acorn'd boar, a German one,
The nobleman would have dealt with her like a
for I am sure I shall turn sonnet. Devise, wit;
Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil.
'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.
But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him;
gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any petty
Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
Friends of my soul, you twain
What would You, Desdemona?
Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief;
Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments:
Good Pandarus, how now, Pandarus!
And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds
Obey our will, which travails in thy good:
Do me no slander, Douglas: by my life,
I will do so.
Nor never lay his wreathed arms athwart
Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest.
with him but the drum and the fife; and now had he
How! caught of me!
else being drowned, we will inherit here: here;
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
Exit
appoint her to look out at her lady's chamber window.
The more fool you, for laying on my duty.
Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord:
Withdraw thee, wretched Margaret: who comes here?
You have a father able to maintain you;
Or else you love not, for to be wise and love
Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three
Must be provided for: and you shall put
Than will preserve just so much strength in us
Being so father'd and so husbanded?
Shall see advantageable for our dignity,
As thou lovest me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of
To kindle their dry stubble; and their blaze
That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in
If from me he have wholesome beverage,
Light, I say! light!
Unto a dismal and a fatal end:
I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair
Sound, sound alarum! we will rush on them.
Exeunt
What would you 'fore our tent?
What Roman lord it was durst do the deed:
Enter LADY CAPULET
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
out: wind me into him, I pray you: frame the
That cannot be; the noise of thy cross-bow
Marry, I thank you for it; I thank you for that good
Let me ne'er hope to see a chine again
He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband,
As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,
Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
He has no more knowledge in Hibocrates and Galen,
'Tis well bethought.
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
what marriage is: this fellow will but join you
Exit
For ruin's wasteful entrance: there, the murderers,
She says you have some goodly jest in hand:
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and other Lords; Musicians attending
Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields
I'll nothing do on charge: to her own worth
Forbear your conference with the noble duke.
As they pass by, pluck Casca by the sleeve;
can lick their fingers.
I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again:
The story of that baleful burning night
Your will to mine,--and you, sir, hear you,
The unity the king thy brother made
To-night all friends.
To make coals cheap,--a noble memory!
Under the service of a child as soon
Have I not in a pitched battle heard
Sure he is by this, or will be presently: but,
Will suddenly break forth. Sir, fare you well:
Of my whole course of love; what drugs, what charms,
prononcer ces mots devant les seigneurs de France
Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue,
Well didst thou, Richard, to suppress thy voice;
They are not constant but are changing still
The bird is dead
Without suspicion.
Flying between the cold moon and the earth,
Enter MENENIUS AGRIPPA
That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey:
Ay, forsooth.
Come, cousin, let us tell the queen these news.
there to command.
What lay before them.
Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?
And reason panders will.
And, part, being prompted by your present trouble,
lady: shall I vent to her that thou art coming?
You that have been so tenderly officious
that suffers under probation A should follow but O does.
Pardon, dear father.
Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me.
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and
I'll raise the preparation of a war
Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
What is a traitor?
Say, wall-eyed slave, whither wouldst thou convey
Bring them before me.
it upon my death, I gave him this wound in the
What thing! why, a thing to thank God on.
O thou untaught! what manners is in this?
My lords, at once: the care you have of us,
Therefore am I of an honourable house.
It may be, very likely.
Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
Examine other beauties.
And brief, good mother; for I am in haste.
Till I have brought him to his wits again,
Had from the conversation of my thoughts
To those that, without heed, do plunge into 't.
I would keep from thee. For your sake, jewel,
So then two bosoms and a single troth.
A stone by thee.
To tell us whether they will come or no!
Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd
Enter HOTSPUR and DOUGLAS
Smother her spirits up.
Our court shall be a little Academe,
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down:
There lie thy bones, sweet Mutius, with thy friends,
Even in these honest mean habiliments:
Say,
It were a tedious difficulty, I think,
O weary reckoning!
More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts:
And learn this lesson, draw thy sword in right.
At your industrious scenes and acts of death.
Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
Were not you here but even now disguised?
And pleasure drown the brim.
For the main soldier: whose quality, going on,
Hath alter'd that good picture? What's thy interest
There is no power in the tongue of man
According to the weight and worthiness.
As heavens forefend!--your ruin; marry her,
Ay, defiled land, my lord.
Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace, and wake in joy;
If I can catch him once upon the hip,
Whither, my lord? from bought and sold Lord Talbot;
between eight and nine: I must carry her word
I'll once more feast the rascals.
Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here.
Go, hang yourselves all! you are idle shallow
born! I knew thou wouldst be his death. O, poor
Come, come, come.
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
'Zounds, sir, you are one of those that will not
In sooth, I would you were a little sick,
You look but on a stool.
And, like ambitious Sylla, overgorged
Re-enter BOYET
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO and FRIAR THOMAS
Prepare there,
And bide the penance of each three years' day.
some strange thing toward, Edmund; pray you, be careful.
him. Close, in the name of jesting! Lie thou there,
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
The Dauphin is too wilful-opposite,
Will you not tell me who told you so?
No prodigal.
Change you colour?
And make them dread it, to the doers' thrift.
Nay, mark how Lewis stamps, as he were nettled:
This battle fares like to the morning's war,
Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him,
Further to question me of your king's departure:
Scarcity and want shall shun you;
What, my lord?
So may he with more facile question bear it,
Thou art a most pernicious usurer,
And we will answer all things faithfully.
Of love?
understanding, diest; or, to wit I kill thee, make
He hath ta'en the infection: hold it up.
Go to, go to; peace, peace; we must deal gently
When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tis
And leave us, Publius; lest that the people,
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
For no thought is contented. The better sort,
Which might have well becomed the best of men,
Kills TAMORA
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
Humbling their deities to love, have taken
Or like a creature native and indued
That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
He met the night-mare, and her nine-fold;
And think it not the worst of an your fortunes
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
You of your wife and me of my consent,
To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
In few, they hurried us aboard a bark,
My heart was to thy rudder tied by the strings,
The debt he owes will be required of me.
sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer
Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the pope.
Withhold revenge, dear God! 'tis not my fault,
Tune my distresses and record my woes.
In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage
this Benedictus.
Unlikely wonders; how these vain weak nails
What treasure, uncle?
which he swore, as he was a soldier, he would wear
Sweet, above thought I love thee.
I am too old to fawn upon a nurse,
You, Polydote, have proved best woodman and
Call him hither, good Monsieur Le Beau.
This act so evilly born shall cool the hearts
Bade me rely on him as on my father,
Come, come; we'll couch i' the castle-ditch till we
There's much example for't; the fellow that sits
Pardon me, madam; I have unadvised
Your low-laid son our godhead will uplift:
of a good conscience.
Out of self-bounty, be abused; look to't:
Because his fathers are more beautiful?
I ne'er saw this before.
Are not with me esteem'd above thy life:
I have heard, but not believed,
Most thankfully, my lord.
Exeunt
their villany goes against my weak stomach, and
look to his bond.
Fled to his house amazed:
Will take away your life.
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
But, masters, here's money for you: and the general
And an adopted name of privilege,
Dost thou speak seriously, Servilius?
Where is thy husband now? where be thy brothers?
And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp:
From Florence and must here deliver them.
Why let it strike?
Thy foot to England's throne; and therefore mark.
And dout them with superfluous courage, ha!
The Earl of Westmoreland set forth to-day;
Art thou sure of this?
Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own,
Set fire on barns and hay-stacks in the night,
What wouldst thou have us do, Andronicus?
I would I could not think it: that thought is
[Within]  Peace, ho, be here!
Good morrow, then.
In him that should compare. I do not think
Nay, by'r our lady, that I think a' cannot.
I am in heaven for him; or ere I could
Stand you! You have land enough of your own: but
By still dispraising praise valued in you;
Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round
swallowed than a flap-dragon.
Good mother, be content; it is no more
It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of
Why, lady, Love hath twenty pair of eyes.
And for those wrongs, those bitter injuries,
hose, and you, being in love, cannot see to put on your hose.
We have had pastimes here and pleasant game:
Good queen, let us entreat you.
confounded one the other, or have fallen both.
water against a gentlewoman's farthingale? didst
I dare not call them fools; but this I think,
Up higher to the plain; where we'll set forth
I cannot too much muse
They say, best men are moulded out of faults;
No more, but e'en a woman, and commanded
I'll bring you to him.
There ye shall meet about this weighty business.
What is your will?
As makes it light or heavy in the substance,
And suits well for a servant with my fortunes:
When slanders do not live in tongues;
Thou slander of thy mother's heavy womb!
We'll speak it, then.
My purpose was for Tarsus, there to strike
Or climb my palace, till from forth this place
gabble enough, and good enough. As for you,
Ah! thus King Henry throws away his crutch
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife
Yet left in heaven as small a drop of pity
My heavy burden ne'er delivered.
By making many. O, it grieves my soul,
I was your mother much upon these years
Enter, at a distance, Host, and JULIA in boy's clothes
It is the issue of Polixenes:
Tell him, cavaleiro-justice; tell him, bully-rook.
And durst not once peep out.
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
Myself am one made privy to the plot.
A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'No,'
[Coming forward]  This can be no trick: the
of our way, I say.
You go about to torture me in vain.
If he say so, may his pernicious soul
my sweet love?
You shall not go, my lord.
Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest, shall
Nay, then, this spark will prove a raging fire,
Spake you of Caesar? How! the non-pareil!
Pardon's the word to all.
The wild waves whist,
That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is,
Before the time I did Lysander see,
Lo thee!
Mine, sir.
By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit:
ever lost: 'tis too cold a companion; away with 't!
I stood engaged: but when I had subscribed
A cloak as long as thine will serve the turn?
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth.
jades' tricks; which are their own right by the law of nature.
And what's to come of my despised time
To prove it on thee to the extremest point
Exit GLOUCESTER
And self-reproving: bring his constant pleasure.
But mark'd him not a word. O, he is as tedious
What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
Why, then, how stands the matter with them?
My dear son Ferdinand.
Valiant and virtuous, full of haughty courage,
Better than he have worn Vulcan's badge.
he passes some humours and careers.
Hence from Verona art thou banished:
Ere further leisure yield them further means
And not alone in habit and device,
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall:
Lapis.
Where France?
The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
godheads to borrow of men, men would forsake the
Patience her injury a mockery makes.
Then fairly I bespoke the officer
Go to; say no more.
I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
If drink rock not his cradle.
Edward, kneel down.
Two thousand, fair woman: and I'll vouchsafe thee
an I were not a very coward, I'ld compel it of you:
scarce obey this medicine.
This conduct to convey me to the Tower.
The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
I am to blame.
does? a knave very voluble; no further
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
Den it sall also content me.
Write down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, do
There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
Kinsmen, shoot all your shafts into the court:
Why should he not?
That he did plead in earnest? yea or no?
SCENE I. King Lear's palace.
love me for this, take me: if not, to say to thee
he is a very valiant trencherman; he hath an
Titus Andronicus, my lord the emperor
methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face; and I
Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees
Within the Temple-hall we were too loud;
A witch, by fear, not force, like Hannibal,
That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm?
Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best
An't shall please your majesty, I never said nor
And our return, to excuse: but first, how get hence:
I' the body of the weal; and now, arriving
And yesterday the bird of night did sit
It is in mine authority to command
Seven of my people, with an obedient start, make
Of treasonous malice.
Cassio!
By looking back what I have left behind
him, SURREY, bearing the rod of silver with
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
And seem'd to ask him sops as he was drinking.
I did not see your grace: humbly on my knee
That in these several places of the city
clap hands and a bargain: how say you, lady?
Than it should do offence to Michael Cassio;
That young Octavius and Mark Antony
The violence of either grief or joy
Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
Saint Alban's battle won by famous York
With bloody passage led your wars even to
Be well avenged; or till another Caesar
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
O, sir!
When your false masters eat of my lord's meat?
in simple time; I cannot: but I love thee; none
Are you not ashamed? I think you have killed the
Got my lord chamberlain his liberty.
His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
Seeing how loathly opposite I stood
That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
For this from stiller seats we came,
The business of this man looks out of him;
sufficient testimony that I have enjoyed the dearest
For friends kill friends, and the disorder's such
Reads
her recompense: and here, by this, is your brother
And the business you have broached here cannot be
Till now infixed I beheld myself
So well as soft and tender flattery.
therefore I must cast it up.
I'll so offend, to make offence a skill;
Myself, my brother and this grieved count
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
As one man more, methinks, would share from me
And he that brings his head unto the king
I thank my liege, that in regard of me
That nothing do but meditate on blood,--
Unworthy thee,--if ever henceforth thou
And in his bosom spend my latter gasp:
By flight I'll shun the danger which I fear.
Like a drowned man, a fool and a mad man: one
Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her;
We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
sleep. Look, who comes here.
Thou,--and thou,--and thou:--you have served me well,
I will not, uncle: I have forgot my father;
And blood of your begetting.
That Edward shall be fearful of his life,
Nor more shall trenching war channel her fields,
Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,
Which often, since my here-remain in England,
Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow.
Vouchsafe to those that have not read the story,
He is no less than what we say he is.
O, a good wish upon you! you will try in time, in
That idles in the wanton summer air,
By yielding up thy body to my will;
'Tis not for fear but anger that thy cheeks
There to remain.
But seeming so, for my peculiar end:
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
O, would thou wert as thou tofore hast been!
Of any true decision. Nature craves
DON
and heard; but faintly, nothing like the image
return: let there be covenants drawn between's: my
That's but a cavil: he is old, I young.
The peace of England and our persons' safety,
And all is done. Then let the trumpets sound
Stand by our Ajax: as you and Lord AEneas
I came unto your court for honour's cause,
This day, all things begun come to ill end,
My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar;
the war, the Roman wars, in the way of argument,
Woo'd me to steal it; but she so loves the token,
We have jaded out o' the field.
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,
From general excrement: each thing's a thief:
Any thing on him; for he hath a witchcraft
And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
Usurp'd from you and your progenitors.
Paris is lost; the state of Normandy
I have been begging sixteen years in court,
old a head. I leave him to your gracious
You were ever good at sudden commendations,
How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst;
For they have grudged us contribution:
Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,
Exeunt all but TITUS
Which my love makes religion to obey,
Keep me in patience, and with ripen'd time
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
my wife is my friend. If men could be contented to
It was a lover and his lass,
The lady protests too much, methinks.
Till you hear further from me.
Our praises are our wages: you may ride's
What, what, sweet-heart?
I pray you, after the lieutenant; go.
That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?
That taught his son the office of a fowl!
Haste there before us: I constantly do think--
And with him rises weeping: these are flowers
men and gives them suits of durance; he that sets up
A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
Am I or that or this for what he'll utter,
But that in all my life, when I was a youth.
And after bite me, then like hedgehogs which
Husband, let's follow, to see the end of this ado.
Enter JESSICA and LAUNCELOT
Entreated me to call and know her mind:
I,--
Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
manage alone. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto and Gadshill
Say, gentle princess, would you not suppose
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding;
By your leave, sir: I am sick till I see her.
I'll see that straight.
I do.
Grave tribunes, once more I entreat of you,--
By Signior Angelo.
Que dit-il? que je suis semblable a les anges?
Every fairy take his gait;
A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,
Far more, far more to you do I decline.
Hold, Toby; on thy life I charge thee, hold!
Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him
[Aside]  If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me,
And I unjustly too, must grant it you
Unto the judge that begg'd it and indeed
If that an eye may profit by a tongue,
Along with me: I'll see what hole is here,
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
Sleep a little.
SCENE VI. Camp before Florence.
recovered?
With such a suffering, such a deadly life,
Lie not a night from home; watch me like Argus:
we meet in the city, we shall be dogged with
Thou hast undone thyself, thy son and me;
Could not all hell afford you such a devil?
Consumptions sow
Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats!
To leave a thousand-fold more bitter than
Timon, I fear me thou wilt give away thyself in
wench is cast away: she's quick; the child brags in
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
The emperor's coming in behalf of France,
In noise so rude against me?
But freshly looks and over-bears attaint
As men in rage strike those that wish them best,
Call it a travel that thou takest for pleasure.
Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.
Readins, of Maidenhead, of Colebrook, of horses and
clerks, I'll give thee this neck.
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
I think so too. But you shall find, the band that
And be a thwart disnatured torment to her!
Pulling clothes out of the basket
Madam, here is a letter from my lord.
Bleat softly then; the butcher hears you cry.
Here comes one.
Throw this report on their incensed rage,
Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is:
My ventures are not in one bottom trusted,
And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
To MARDIAN
Ay, and an ox too: both the proofs are extant.
Thy life hath that dishonour'd.
To him, Sir Topas.
hand? come, tell us your reason: what sayest thou to this?
your reproach.
He's not prepared for death. Even for our kitchens
His comforts thrive, his trials well are spent.
For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
Pride, haughtiness, opinion and disdain:
That she was false to wedlock?
The king will suffer but the little finger
Beckoning with fiery truncheon my retire;
Tell him, I'll knock his leek about his pate
press in here, sir, amongst the rest of the country
He leaves me, scorns me: briefly die their joys
What do you think of me?
It eats the sword it fights with. I will seek
Never, my lord: but I have heard him oft
Had been a little ratsbane for thy sake!
A royal battle might be won and lost
That souls of animals infuse themselves
The letter is too long by half a mile.
They vex me past my patience! Pray you, pass on:
That is my brother's plea and none of mine;
Absolute Milan. Me, poor man, my library
Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the
As you would beg, were you in my distress
Know you him?
But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,
Upon the beached verge of the salt flood;
No more of him; for I will deal with him
Remember me at court; where I was taught
business, but he would not hear my excuse. I am
Upon my banishment: I moved her to't,
ta'en a thousand pound this day morning.
Young ravens must have food.
I know we shall have revelling to-night:
Blessed be your royal grace!
More light and light; more dark and dark our woes!
And think, perchance, they'll sell; if not,
His hours fill'd up with riots, banquets, sports,
The sooner, sweet, for you.
In thy dumb action will I be as perfect
And bring him up to liking.
To catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great;
I summon your grace to his majesty's parliament,
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
Wishing me with him, partner of his fortune.
That calf-like they my lowing follow'd through
So doubly seconded with will and power,
Who kept him in captivity till he died.
O shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
Be avised, sir, and pass good humours: I will say
let it be concealed awhile.
That paragon, thy daughter,--
it is pity of her life, for it is a naughty house.
A howling monster: a drunken monster!
if thou thou'st him some thrice, it shall not be
I do believe you think what now you speak;
What speech, my lord?
Not to kill him, having a warrant for it; but to be
Far from his succor, from the king, from all
Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand,
She, Claudio, that you wrong'd, look you restore.
Must get a father, call'd 'supposed Vincentio;'
No, indeed, will I not, Pompey; it is not the wear.
Signior, you are very near my brother in his love:
here, 'tis here. I have seen the time, with my long
In his own conduct, purposely to take
To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never
And gallop o'er the field.
valour is crushed into folly, his folly sauced with
Was near at hand: ne'er long'd my mother so
Thou say'st the king grows mad; I'll tell thee, friend,
Putting on a red rose
Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate,
There, take the crown, and, with the crown, my curse;
Nor never needed that I should entreat,
The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife,
quotidian tertian, that it is most lamentable to
much out of quiet. For Monsieur Malvolio, let me
Enter LEONTES, HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, POLIXENES, CAMILLO, and Attendants
Ay, sir, they be ready: the oats have eaten the horses.
certain: 'tis dangerous to take a cold, to sleep, to
To that destruction which I'll guard them from,
Sweet majesty, vouchsafe me,--
The fruit she goes with
crack the glass of her virginity, and make the rest malleable.
And safely brought to Dover; where inshipp'd
else you may be marvellously mistook.
And in his parties, his alliance; let him be
So it is said, my noble lord; but therefore
Or in my life what comfort, when I am
Callest thou my love 'hobby-horse'?
One Michael Cassio, a Florentine,
Not black in my mind, though yellow in my legs. It
Tut, tut; good enough to toss; food for powder, food
Intends you for his swift ambassador,
There is a fat friend at your master's house,
And neither by treason nor hostility
Virtue he had, deserving to command:
I am to pray you not to strain my speech
I would your grace would give us but an hour
Our eldest-born, speak first.
I would be loath to have you overflown with a
How canst thou thus for shame, Titania,
And to speak troth, I have forgot our way:
See that Claudio
Or as one nail by strength drives out another,
Therefore let every man now task his thought,
Thou'ldst not believe thy deeds: but I'll report it
So do you, good master doctor.
'Tis Alcibiades, and some twenty horse,
If you do fight against your country's foes,
And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch!
But though we think it so, it is no matter:
Be quite degraded, like a hedge-born swain
Hath yoked a nation strong, train'd up in arms.
Be pleased awhile.
Ay, good my lord.
Then music with her silver sound'--
And I will call him to so strict account,
That's the plain truth: your painted gloss discovers,
A heart unspotted is not easily daunted.
If law, authority and power deny not,
Well, more gold: what then?
The wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap
The certainty of this hard life; aye hopeless
For virtue and true beauty of the soul,
O me, my heart, my rising heart! but, down!
me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more
And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars;
Say, Henry, shall I have my right, or no?
Exeunt BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
That I may pass this doing.
Enter PARIS, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch
but of my shedding.
Marry, thou oughtest not to let thy horse wear a
By your pardon;
Pray, sit between these ladies.
Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman:
How mean soe'er, that have their honest wills,
My lord, because we have business of more moment,
Second to none that lives here in the city:
horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
More than mistress of
In thy just proof, repeals and reconciles thee.
hear from you.
And false.
Now go with me and with this holy man
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Take wreak on Rome for this ingratitude,
Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail'd
Bring the strong poison that I bought of him.
How much more elder art thou than thy looks!
This world had air'd them: hence I took a thought,
Yet, that the world may witness that my end
drink it? wherein neat and cleanly, but to carve a
That ministers thine own death if I die.
To charge me to an answer, as the pope.
The other half in use, to render it,
It pleases time and fortune to lie heavy
Their graces serve them but as enemies?
Nay, he reserved a blanket, else we had been all shamed.
What cause withholds you then, to mourn for him?
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
Fit to govern!
Why, so I did.
He overtaketh in his pilgrimage,
wholly depends on your abode.
Peace, lady! pause, or be more temperate:
And that no woman has; nor never none
A begging prince what beggar pities not?
With 'God preserve the good Duke Humphrey!'
Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
I am unarm'd; forego this vantage, Greek.
To gratify your honourable youth,
To hear my nothings monster'd.
Thy burden at the sea, and call'd Marina
Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
While other sports are tasking of their minds,
book, she loves you. Have not your worship a wart
Love not such nights as these; the wrathful skies
SCENE I. London. QUEEN KATHARINE's apartments.
My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine
Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes,
He hath more worthy interest to the state
I do beseech you,
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
Their arms are set like clocks, stiff to strike on;
These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
His soldiers lurking in the towns about,
Will leap to be his friend: for us, you know,
This is Othello's ancient, as I take it.
Being once display'd, doth fall that very hour.
repent out the remainder of nature: let me live,
Nor to be seen: my crown is called content:
The villany of our fears.
And you that do abet him in this kind
But hear you, hear you!
Wherein you would have sold your king to slaughter,
approves him an intelligent party to the advantages
will; for good things should be praised.
There would be hands uplifted in my right;
For that he knew you, might reproach your life
Here therefore for a while I will remain.
Enter LAUNCELOT
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Enter PEMBROKE
Hail!
Go, Philostrate,
That only have fear'd Caesar: to the ports
Well, I would you did like me.
I say 'silver sound,' because musicians sound for silver.
Between the elements of air and earth,
Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too,
Can ye endure to hear this arrogance?
Then shall I swear to Kate, and you to me;
Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are
But that his beard grew thin and hungerly
In aught he merit not.
done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father, being, I
SCENE I. Without the Florentine camp.
See see, my beauty will be saved by merit!
And let's be red with mirth.
And dull unfeeling barren ignorance
Cannot pursue us. If thou lovest me then,
Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.
It is a quarrel just and reasonable,
Who in unnecessary action swarm
Your sweet dependency; and you shall find
Whose double bosoms seem to wear one heart,
And slaves they are to me that send them flying:
I do adore thy sweet grace's slipper.
Thou never hadst renown, nor canst not lose it.
I would not be ambitious in my wish,
I would my tongue could rot them off!
Is all too wanton and too full of gawds
Who worse than a physician
Awakes me all the enrolled penalties
And cracking the strong warrant of an oath,
'Tis a notorious villain. Take you this weapon,
To them for you.
Well, well, 'tis done, 'tis past: and yet it is not;
Beholding him, plucks comfort from his looks:
And cannot brook competitors in love?
That see I by our faces; we are fellows still,
The pale moon shines by night:
How long have you been of this profession?
But, soft! company is coming here.
I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death:
thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers.
If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on
As how I came into that desert place:--
In sleep I heard him say 'Sweet Desdemona,
Cannot vouchsafe this burthen,'tis too weak
Quiet untroubled soul, awake, awake!
Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift
Seal'd in my function, by my testimony:
Therefore of all hands must we be forsworn.
As he forth walked on his way:--
hath slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O
Here must I stay, and here my life must end.
I met the ravin lion when he roar'd
She soon shall know of us, by some of ours,
The healing benediction. With this strange virtue,
Alas, a crimson river of warm blood,
At all times to your will conformable;
Therefore I beat thee.
But I disdain'd it, and did scorn to fly:
As hotly and as nobly with thy love
In asking their good loves, but thou wilt frame
I dare assure thee that no enemy
Where manners ne'er were preach'd! out of my sight!
Loud alarum
telling true, but so.
Exit
Being held a foe, he may not have access
Though this island seem to be desert,--
conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of such
tailor's-yard, you sheath, you bowcase; you vile
It is the very error of the moon;
How!
Think us no churls, nor measure our good minds
wish might be found in the calendar of my past
I'll have that doctor for my bedfellow.
My duty, madam, and most humble service.
[Singing]  I call'd my love false love; but what
Did buy each other, must poorly sell ourselves
Some trick not worth an egg, shall grow dear friends
Mine own desert.
Yea, with a splitting power, and made to tremble
Than in possession and jot of pleasure.
Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
Would, Polydote, thou hadst not done't! though valour
For loving where you do: but if yourself,
I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so
My lord,
Which men full true shall find;
Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs:
Exeunt
And cordial to me, have I not found it
Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold,
And quietness of the people, which before
The due o' the verdict with it: at what ease
punishment, by thy sweet grace's officer, Anthony
No, I'll not weep:
his helm more hacked than Hector's, and how he looks,
Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
How dread an army hath enrounded him;
On both our parts. Call yonder fellow hither.
Like one i' the stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
And, for he understands you are in arms,
With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil,
Break up their drowsy grave and newly move,
Perfumes the chamber thus: the flame o' the taper
And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
And rear'd aloft the bloody battle-axe,
My low and humble name to propagate
To hear Cominius speak?
Gently to hear, kindly to judge, our play.
Lady, you utter madness, and not sorrow.
A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire;
Red, master; red as blood.
From a well-experienced archer hits the mark
Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong,
sweet instruments hung up in cases that keep their
Poor Tom's a-cold.
Exit MARGARET
MARINA sings
[Aside to SIMPLE]  Are you avised o' that? you
What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
That hath made him mad.
Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
As nothing else could match.
all, Katharine, break thy mind to me in broken
It is no matter, now I have't again.
Leonine, take her by the arm, walk with her.
Believe me, there is no such thing in me.
I do not say 'thwack our general;' but he was always
the inter'gatories: demand them singly.
'Where is the thousand marks I gave thee, villain?'
A curse begin at very root on's heart,
And yet, when wit and youth is come to harvest,
And abstinence engenders maladies.
If he should break his day, what should I gain
Is so possess'd with guilt: come from thy ward,
Into the tumbling billows of the main.
Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong,
What say'st thou, Charles? for I am marching hence.
Or die renowned by attempting it.
learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure.
That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
Enter SIMPLE
The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds,
On pain of punishment, the world to weet
If quick fire of youth light not your mind,
Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
That I were couching with the doctor's clerk.
Yield, Marcius, yield!
Exit
SCENE II. Hall in Capulet's house.
Yield, my lord protector; yield, Winchester;
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
What, look'd he frowningly?
He'll soon find means to make the body follow.
Nothing.
With his inducement.
Tell you the Dauphin I am coming on,
Hail, virgin, if you be, as those cheek-roses
Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears
Suffolk concluded on the articles,
knowledge be more it is much darkened in your malice.
What was a month old at Cain's birth, that's not five
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
Is as the very centre of the earth,
double-dealer: there's another.
night,--I tell this tale vilely:--I should first
In all humility unto his highness:
[Aside]                  She speaks, and 'tis
And, in the hearing of these many friends,
carry't, he will carry't; 'tis in his buttons; he
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
France,--I cannot tell vat is baiser en Anglish.
My most honour'd lord,
You shall command me, sir.
For no name fits thy nature but thy own!
coming a-night to Jane Smile; and I remember the
Haply I see a friend will save my life
To Servant, giving a paper
You are the better at proverbs, by how much 'A
For which the people's prayers still fall upon you,
Thou play'dst most foully for't: yet it was said
We'll pull his plumes and take away his train,
Thou hast a perfect thought:
Though forfeiters you cast in prison, yet
Till France be won into the Dauphin's hands:
You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
Ay, let the county take you in your bed;
To trust the opportunity of night
One day too late, I fear me, noble lord,
Exeunt
By my troth, I will speak my conscience of the king:
had never been born.
But if black scandal or foul-faced reproach
Enter ARIEL, invisible
It may be so, but I did never see it.
I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate:
A good persuasion: therefore, hear me, Hermia.
Why, he is so made on here within, as if he were son
For they have entertained cause enough
Thou marvell'st at my words: but hold thee still;
Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
I had rather hear you chide than this man woo.
More hateful than the foul expulsion is
What else?
A knave; a rascal; an eater of broken meats; a
That we could hear no news of his repair?
That may give furtherance to our expedition;
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
I'll follow thee a month, devise with thee
And then the power of Scotland and of York,
Enter PISANIO and IMOGEN
'O that these hands could so redeem my son,
As to be cast forth in the common air,
Why, didst thou not come from heaven?
No, to the death, we will not move a foot;
Discover how, and thou shalt find me just.
looked to, without any tricks.
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him
And drop my blood for drachmas, than to wring
Each man apart, all single and alone,
He's father, son, and husband mild;
Exit
And make me blest to obey! I am brought hither
Exeunt
Nothing concerning me.
Re-enter ANNE PAGE
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
father compounded with my mother under the
sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar; and, as
This is the law, and this Duke Humphrey's doom.
This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him
where to have her.
This was my dream: what it doth bode, God knows.
I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
At blow and thrust; even as again they were
Thy valour and thy heart, thou art a traitor;
within, sir. I will construe to them whence you
Wept bitterly; and would I might be dead
To be Count Malvolio!
We charge you, that you have contrived to take
For so they phrase 'em--by their heralds challenged
What, what! the lustful sons of Tamora
Or did he make the jest against his will?
My mirth it much displeased, but pleased my woe.
sound retreat or parley, when I command them kill?
serves a bad woman; whose house, sir, was, as they
Advance thy halbert higher than my breast,
I am the daughter to King Pericles,
Now, youthful Troilus, do not these high strains
The moment on't; for't must be done to-night,
Aside
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
But that the dread of something after death,
That long have frown'd upon their enmity!
Or study where to meet some mistress fine,
Who am no more but as the tops of trees,
By her I claim the kingdom: she was heir
Be calm, good wind, blow not a word away
The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top,
Enter YORK
[Aside]  Yes, like enough, high-battled Caesar will
And fall into our rustic revelry.
It will outrun you, father, in the end.
for my friends.
Exeunt
Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner,
Ah, sir, there's many a Greek and Trojan dead,
An't like your grace,--
Ay me, for pity! what a dream was here!
That others touch, and often touching will
SCENE I. Dunsinane. Ante-room in the castle.
To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you.
Heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind!
Long in his highness' favour, and do justice
Approach, ho! All's not well: Caesar's beguiled.
Sorrow and grief have vanquish'd all my powers;
tavern and tavern: but the sack that thou hast
They were not born for bondage.
I'll intermingle every thing he does
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
That it is meet so few should fetch the prince.
That at the parting all the church did echo:
Hark, do you hear the sea?
Well said, noble woman?
Kindly! Sir, I pray, let me ha't: I have wounds to
Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? and is not
Exit
Enter the Ghosts of the two young Princes
And thanks; and ever [         ] oft good turns
Which you deny already: yet we will ask;
Persuade the queen to send the Duke of York
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog!
Yet I confess that often ere this day,
Well fitted in arts, glorious in arms:
would be glad to receive some instruction from my
To me he seems like diamond to glass.
To such as love not sorrow; but another,
A sable silver'd.
Unhappy Claudio! wretched Isabel!
I find him a fit fellow.
Whate'er I forge to feed his brain-sick fits,
Such was the very armour he had on
That is most certain.
Exeunt
At once and fully satisfied,--whether ever I
it was not Anne, but a postmaster's boy.
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
Why that way?
taken against me a most just exception; but yet, I
rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary
Therefore, sirrah,
Enter MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE
My heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse;
Enter QUINCE for the Prologue
What's that?
tender, and they'll be for the flowery way that
Let's tune, and to it lustily awhile.
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be;
Our duty is so rich, so infinite,
I thought all for the best.
more mature dignities and royal necessities made
Cassandra, call my father to persuade.
Please it our general to pass strangely by him,
To tender it herself. I undertook it,
his displeasure; which at this instant so rageth
Thou foul accursed minister of hell!
Shout within. 'A Lancaster! A Lancaster!'
Then into limits could I bind my woes:
Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,
Sir, sooth to say, you did not dine at home.
There lives within the very flame of love
That we shall make in time, from our hence-going
Now, say, Chatillon, what would France with us?
I cannot tell: long is it since I saw him,
Enter FERDINAND, bearing a log
He hath no eyes, the dust hath blinded them.
Staying for thine to keep him company:
dying, I with things newborn. Here's a sight for
This is, sir, a doubt
Shalt with him hence.
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
The deepest loathing to the stomach brings,
Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.
Whereof you cannot easily purge yourself.
are betray'd
O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!
Are every one a woe, a sore complaint
Stand to't.
Is near the hate of those love not the king.
Was by a beggar-woman stolen away;
You have known him long; and be you well assured
Upon your grace's part; black and fearful
And keep the turn of tippling with a slave;
Exeunt all but BASTARD
I'll beat him too.
It would not out at windows nor at doors.
If thou be'st yet a fresh uncropped flower,
And the wind brings it from the Capitol.
faint a number; and for our disgrace, his own
Could never go so slow: I have heard of
I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail
o with me to the duchess.
Or hitherwards intended speedily,
Some that will evermore peep through their eyes
Exeunt all but Boy
Upon this shore, where you were wreck'd, was landed,
You must leave this.
At a few drops of women's rheum, which are
Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
Ajax, your guard, stays to conduct you home.
May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take
contemplation, mark, and denotement of her parts and
Being come to knowledge that there was complaint
Nay, send in time.
When time shall call him home from banishment,
Unswear faith sworn, and on the marriage-bed
As a nose on a man's face, or a weathercock on a steeple!
You're welcome, my fair guests: that noble lady,
He speaks with such a proud commanding spirit.
Here is more news.
niece. O brave Hector! Look how he looks! there's
With slight denial, nor then silenced when--
But madam, I must trouble you again;
It is not my consent,
Be a child o' the time.
magician, most profound in his art and yet not
By tasting of our wrath? How of descent
And so she did.
He would not take it. Never did I know
fairly in jest.
Exceed account; but the full sum of me
As he will have me, how am I so poor?
My lord, you do me shameful injury,
'Tis still a dream, or else such stuff as madmen
and an express command, under penalty, to deliver
you may believe: censure me in your wisdom, and
Else wherefore breathe I in a Christian land?
Nay, very pale.
Exit EDGAR
enticements, oaths, tokens, and all these engines of
We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.
My lord of Orleans, and my lord high constable, you
To who, my lord? Who hath the office? send
A twofold marriage, 'twixt my crown and me,
I would have broke mine eye-strings; crack'd them, but
So virgin-like without? Lo, here she comes.
Is this wind westerly that blows?
Then, at the expiration of the year,
Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
Whose maiden blood, thus rigorously effused,
To be o'erheard and taken napping so.
Why then you must. Will you put out mine eyes?
when my lust hath dined,--which, as I say, to vex
O, I would thou didst,
Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
And enterprises of great pith and moment
Than lady, ladies, woman; from every one
The other lords, like lions wanting food,
And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power:
Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?
Lying down at OPHELIA's feet
And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife
Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell,
question for your residence.
Be factious for redress of all these griefs,
Now, Titinius! Now some light. O, he lights too.
What is your name?
Exeunt all but BEDFORD and Attendants
Not till I sheathe it in a murderer's skin.
Strikes him
fit.
To call upon him.
Sir Valentine and servant, to you two thousand.
That it alone is high fantastical.
And let young Arthur, Duke of Bretagne, in,
Returning were as tedious as go o'er:
and admiring the nothing of it. So that in this
For what good turn?
You must lay lime to tangle her desires
Being ordain'd his special governor,
I cry you mercy. Here's Cassio hurt by villains.
Which, in the tender of a wholesome weal,
Sorely, to say I did; it is as bitter
Make me a willow cabin at your gate,
Stay not, all's in vain.
My lord, entreat him by no means to stay.
His access to me.
Hear me, grave fathers! noble tribunes, stay!
And Pericles, in sorrow all devour'd,
Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west,
And our King Henry gives away his own,
Hot, hot, and moist: this hand of yours requires
A drop of patience: but, alas, to make me
Indeed, my lord,
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
Despite of death that lives upon my grave,
Upon this overweening traitor's foot,
Be-monster not thy feature. Were't my fitness
But on his knees at meditation;
The affliction of my mind amends, with which,
To win thee, lady. But, alas the while!
All is but toys: renown and grace is dead;
And when she weeps, weeps every little flower,
Of modern seeming do prefer against him.
your foins.
all the kind of the Launces have this very fault. I
Peace, peace!
I am not mad: I would to heaven I were!
Commend my service to me sovereign.'
Amen, amen.
Exit RUGBY
Do bid it welcome.
The herd hath more annoyance by the breeze
To be the realm of France, and Pharamond
Exit
Teem with new monsters, whom thy upward face
Give not this rotten orange to your friend;
Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he
In his own change, or by ill officers,
Thy likeness, for instead of thee, King Harry,
I slew thy father, call'st thou him a child?
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
Dissolve, thick cloud, and rain; that I may say,
with the other confederate companion!
Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say
With the rude multitude till I return.
With titles blown from adulation?
Here's to your ladyship: and pledge it, madam,
Welcome shall they be;
He cannot speak, my lord.
Ay, ay, my liege;
Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours;
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
And cannot lose your way.
Antioch, farewell! for wisdom sees, those men
ARIEL'S song.
But since my master and mistress have bought you,
Without you? nay, that's certain, for, without you
as crest-fallen as a dried pear. I never prospered
That's a lie in thy throat. I charge you in his
Becomes thee well enough.
gentle a condition!
Would I were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in
At every joint and motive of her body.
By a sharp torture.
O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
How now! what's the matter?
Come, I'll conduct you to the sanctuary.
Of Ragozine, more like to Claudio?
On May-day morning; which will never be:
Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel:
And put it to the foil: but you, O you,
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
I know ye well enough.
One of these three contains her heavenly picture.
No more.
Ay, sir; we are some of her trappings.
Here is the babe, as loathsome as a toad
Monday night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning;
That you do see? could thought, without this object,
High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.
With this ungracious paper strike the sight
She had; and would incense me
As soul to soul affordeth?
Do better upon them.
We are advertised by our loving friends
Is't far you ride?
See, see, our honour'd hostess!
day.
Wit would be out of fashion.
Sweet Sir Andrew!
By my soul, nor I:
For which I do discharge you of your office:
For certain in our story, she
I'll after them.
Like a full soldier. Let's to the seaside, ho!
What place this is; and all the skill I have
Thou darest not say so, villain, for thy life.
With his own single hand he'ld take us in
Hautboys. A small table under a state for CARDINAL  WOLSEY, a longer table for the guests. Then enter  ANNE and divers other Ladies and Gentlemen as  guests, at one door; at another door, enter GUILDFORD
Since virtue finds no friends--a wife, a true one?
Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
The penalty and forfeit of my bond.
From such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears
Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
My lord Sebastian,
Tell me, sirrah, what's my name?
I pray, you, tell me, hath any body inquired
Record it with your high and worthy deeds:
[Aside to NERISSA]  Thou mayst, I warrant.
book; and we will afterwards ork upon the cause with
No princely commendations to my king?
For in the marches here we heard you were,
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
I knew he was not in his perfect wits.
Re-enter KING LEAR with GLOUCESTER
I had a Richard too, and thou didst kill him;
And at my lovely Tamora's entreats,
As you will live, resolve it you.
To be adopted heir to Frederick.
You bloody Neroes, ripping up the womb
It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place
He be convented. He's a rank weed, Sir Thomas,
Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short;
Ay, sir, very well.
And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air
The Duke of Buckingham came from his trial.
four-inched bridges, to course his own shadow for a
Sooth, madam, I hear nothing.
But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud,
When there is such disorder in my wit.
Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's
Since that our brother dubb'd them gentlewomen.
'Tis no matter for his swellings nor his
Enter the DUKE, the Magnificoes, ANTONIO, BASSANIO, GRATIANO, SALERIO, and others
tush, man, mortal men, mortal men.
That I am meek and gentle with these butchers!
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
At all a friend to truth.
How London doth pour out her citizens!
I have a truant been to chivalry;
Enter PROTEUS, SILVIA, and JULIA
TYBALT under ROMEO's arm stabs MERCUTIO, and flies with his followers
I'll call them back again to comfort me:
Long have I been forlorn, and all for thee:
And by disjoining hands, hell lose a soul.
Turning dispiteous torture out of door!
Hail, royal prince!
ran away upon instinct, you will not touch the true
By this unheedful, desperate, wild adventure:
The juice of it on sleeping eye-lids laid
They will by violence tear him from your palace
are but now cast in his mood, a punishment more in
Who then recover: say thou art mine, and ever
Lord Abergavenny; to whom by oath he menaced
contract of her marriage and the day it is
Show boldness and aspiring confidence.
rest on's body cold. Look, here comes a walking fire.
No touch of bashfulness? What, will you tear
have made to her chastity you shall answer me with
And thou, Lord Bourbon, our high admiral,
Enough.
You beg more than 'word,' then. Cox my passion!
Upon agreement from us to his liking,
I will visit thee at the lodge.
Arise, you shall not kneel:
O Desdemona! Desdemona! dead!
Little Helen, farewell; if I can remember thee, I
sack: and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
contented as in the king's company; his cause being
And so had I; but yet, for fashion sake, I thank you
I have got, in exchange of a hundred and fifty
That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely
In life but double death, now Gloucester's dead.
I let forth your half-pint of blood; back,--that's
On me, and you, and mine, and yours for this!
In the vile prison of afflicted breath.
The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me
And I will be revenged on them all.
Then if she fear, or be to blame,
O me, what hast thou done?
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
from all parts of the world to just and tourney for her love.
Thus says my king; an' if your father's highness
Rough quarries, rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven
I overheard him and his practises.
I' the name of fame and honour; which dies i'
Brutus shall lead; and we will grace his heels
In this our pinching cave, shall we discourse
Sirrah, go fetch the beadle hither straight.
Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.
Tanta est erga te mentis integritas, regina
That brought you forth this boy, to keep your name
I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
It is the Lord AEneas.
For she's a woman to be pitied much:
I'll serve thee true and faithfully till then.
I'ld say I had eyes again!
Exeunt
My father is not dead, for all your saying.
To bring me to him?
At least bring forth a wonder, to content ye
Only, my friend, I yet am unprovided
And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
The gods assist you!
Yet, after all comparisons of truth,
'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
The tevil and his tam! what phrase is this, 'He
[Aside]  So would I, till you had measured how long
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair,
To these great fellows: sound and be hang'd, sound out!
That youth is surely in their company.
From Hamlet! who brought them?
But where they mean to sink ye. All good people,
And comes not in, o'er-ruled by prophecies,
For ever should they be expulsed from France
I had thought I had had men of some understanding
Whereof the ewe not bites, and you whose pastime
You, son John, and my cousin Westmoreland
Why should we in the compass of a pale
To stir against the butchers of his life!
Should I, in these my borrow'd flaunts, behold
Macedon; and there is also moreover a river at
O, my good knave Costard! exceedingly well met.
And get her leave to part. For not alone
'Whoop, do me no harm, good man.'
Do you think so?
Will 't hold? will 't hold?
Do so, good Messala.
Cannot hold out to Tyrus: there I'll leave it
offered it to him again; then he put it by again:
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses.
Beat the approaching Caesar. But if we fail,
Remembers me of all his gracious parts,
Antony offer him a crown;--yet 'twas not a crown
us that are squires of the night's body be called
I will be sure my Katharina shall be fine.
sworn brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold
And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,
There were none principal; they were all like one
Here Aaron is; and what with Aaron now?
Kissing her
If he had done or said any thing amiss, he desired
Alack, in me what strange effect
business is performed, and remain, as he says, your
To be disturb'd, would mad or man or beast:
But not the words.
I would not from your love make such a stray,
men being in love have then a nobility in their
Exit
Orsino.
As I have heard him swear himself there's one
Go on; I'll follow thee.
Derived from the ancient Capilet:
My lord, some two days since I saw the prince,
But this effusion of such manly drops,
That sits in heart-grief and uneasiness
ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso! the
The gracious mark o' the land, you have obscured
SCENE VI. Another part of the plains.
If you will take this audit, take this life,
Hath been most sound: I charge you by the law,
censured here in the city, I mean of us o' the
To his unmaster'd importunity.
Make us thy ministers of chastisement,
Constrain'd to watch in darkness, rain and cold.
On us thou canst not enter but by death;
No; that it is too little.
You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have
cannot abide. How answer you that?
So farewell, noble Lucius.
Or else it stood upon the choice of friends,--
knock, knock! Who's there? Faith, here's an
Which he did give himself, I know not how,
To-morrow will it please you to be crown'd?
If she in chains of magic were not bound,
Is it the fashion, that discarded fathers
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
Till time had made them for us. But it chances
God's patience and the king's English.
Of the young prince your son: send straight for him
Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
There yours, Lord Scroop of Masham; and, sir knight,
If that the praised himself bring the praise forth:
Exit
Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires;
Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
O, a pit of clay for to be made
Normans, but bastard Normans, Norman bastards!
I have a young conception in my brain;
For if I do, I'll mar the young clerk's pen.
Exit
there were wealth enough for the purchase, or merit
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
mother played false with a smith.
offered her mine own, who is a dog as big as ten of
Exit
What, marry, may she! marry with a king,
That shall be scoured in his rancorous heart
Fellow thou, awake!
Look on thy country, look on fertile France,
Good my lord,
I would they'ld fight i' the fire or i' the air;
Thirty fathom.
deal in evil: he excels his brother for a coward,
So help me God, as I have watch'd the night,
And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian:'
'Tis certain he hath pass'd the river Somme.
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
Or covetous of praise,--
Despise me, if I do not. Three great ones of the city,
When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name,
Ay, fool; is that a shame? Note but this fool.
Darest thou maintain the former words thou spakest?
Exeunt
Those bated that inherit but the fall
beseech your society.
The cause of our expedience to the queen,
What shall some see?
To our own selves bend we our needful talk.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MECAENAS, and AGRIPPA
prove it so.
I know not that, when he knows what I know.
Therefore I'll darkly end the argument.
For ever, and for ever, farewell, Brutus!
Exit Regan, led
But that the next heir should succeed and reign.
Are you his brother?
How now, my lord! is't not after midnight?
Which shows me mine changed too; for I must be
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
this controversy.
Whiles you chid me, I did love;
And would so, had it been a carbuncle
You were best to go to bed and dream again,
Shall be engraved the sack of Orleans,
Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks
What is the matter?
These are the whole contents: and, good my lord,
Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
ACT IV
Our parson misdoubts it; 'twas treason, he said.
Answer as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver.
discovers it.
Treason has done his worst: nor steel, nor poison,
Away, base cullions! Suffolk, let them go.
Now shall I see thy love: what motive may
I have heard of such. What slave art thou?
Enter MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, and others attending
Until I see the ring.
Good leave, good Philip.
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
Who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her,
Maintain no words with him, good fellow. Who, I,
I thank you, sir: that's all.
Faith, I know not what to say.
Antony's course, you shall bereave yourself
I'll send them all as willing as I live:
Purple the sails, and so perfumed that
And put the Englishmen unto the sword:
This curlish knot of all-abhorred war?
That with the king here resteth in his tent?
Exit
O sir, we quarrel in print, by the book; as you have
Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me:
The shot of accident, nor dart of chance,
He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes,
What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
quotidian of love upon him.
and more than that, he can speak French; and
Stand, and go back.
Fool goes in
matter. How does your ladyship like it?
And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
RICHARD
Of grave and austere quality, tender down
We shall try fortune in a second fight.
Cried 'Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor!'
If I have too austerely punish'd you,
There did this perjured goldsmith swear me down
I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he
Bohemia stays here longer.
Sleeps
Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea
When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
In their fair cheeks, my lord; then we shall have 'em
And cabin in a cave, and bring you up
down together, I plucked this glove from his helm:
For I am stifled with this smell of sin.
Reports but coarsely of her.
To wail the dimming of our shining star;
Of the duke's confessor, John de la Car,
I prithee tell me; cram's with praise, and make's
As, by a lower but loving likelihood,
Sow all the Athenian bosoms; and their crop
Still have I tarried.
To seal her father's eyes up close as oak-
Why then for Venus' sake, give me a kiss,
Content.
My servant, sir! 'Twas never merry world
The air is delicate.
The place which I have feasted, does it now,
Upon a wrong'd, I would fain have said, a maid!
For how I firmly am resolved you know;
For selfsame wind that I should speak withal
Yet that is but a crush'd necessity,
At least in my opinion.
Your noble friends do lack you.
approbation.
We'll follow them with all the power we have.
Exit BRAKENBURY
She is not worth thee, then. What years, i' faith?
When such a sacred king should hide his head.
Be nominated for an equal pound
As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearl,
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
He hath been in unusual pleasure, and
Did he not, contrary to form of law,
At my request he would not.
established proclaimed edict and continent canon,
You have desire to purchase; and your store,
The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows:
And therefore is the glorious planet Sol
Go to the gates of Bourdeaux, trumpeter:
Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty,
With viewing of the town: there shall you have me.
He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
Have at it then, by leave.
Go in, and weep not; all things shall be well.
When least in company. Prosper well in this,
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
When on my three-foot stool I sit and tell
'Warwick, revenge! brother, revenge my death!'
Wrinkles Apollo's, and makes stale the morning.
Augustus lives to think on't: and so much
Of my mistress, then.
Yonder, sir, he walks.
The generous and gravest citizens
But like of each thing that in season grows.
O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,
[To KING RICHARD III]
Look, when he fawns, he bites; and when he bites,
By this, I think, the dial points at five:
Into an hour-glass: for the which supply,
Exeunt
Come, sermon me no further:
SCENE III. The forest.
But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year
Of general wonder. But, alack,
Exeunt
My dread lord,
And if their wisdoms be misled in this,
By this same coxcomb that we have i' the wind,
But 'tis not so.
And make us weep to hear your fate, fair creature,
Grievous complaints of you; which, being consider'd,
house; he cannot 'scape me; 'tis impossible he
And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive,
Of me more must be heard of, say, I taught thee,
Well, an the fire of grace be not quite out of thee,
Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to
Was in my nobler thoughts most base, is now
Stay a little while.
He that is yours, sweet lady.
With what contempt he wore the humble weed,
That you are well acquainted with yourself,
I think thou dost;
with a sad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack,
O upright judge! Mark, Jew: O learned judge!
likelihood than to see me at her chamber-window,
thinking? Sure, they sleep; he hath no use of them.
I will do this, if I can bring it to any
Conceiving you: were I but twenty-one,
compliment, and men are only turned into tongue, and
Not only good and wise, but most religious:
So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
Bid farewell to your sisters.
Belike your lordship takes us then for fools,
Take it on her. Camillo and Polixenes
come to take hands; and then, with public
out of all hooping!
Mistress, it is: sweet lady, entertain him
Then on, my lords; and France be fortunate!
Let him greet England with our sharp defiance.
Thy pains not used must by thyself be paid:
No such matter, sir: I do live by the church; for
And common profit of his country!
My parts, my title and my perfect soul
Then sing him home;
And never more abase our sight so low
habit no loss shall touch her by my company.
Enter POLONIUS
Thou Fortune's champion that dost never fight
Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
He'ld sow't with nettle-seed.
If you do find him, pray you, give him this;
My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre,
Very well: what would you?
I know a wench of excellent discourse,
With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
You have too much, good lady; but to know
How! turn thy back and run?
Our quick remove from hence.
Flourish. Cornets. Exeunt in state, as before. BRUTUS and SICINIUS come forward
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
It is apart
No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon
The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be,
I will knog your urinals about your knave's cockscomb
Coward of France! how much he wrongs his fame,
Which gives men stomach to digest his words
Have with thee, Pole. Farewell, ambitious Richard.
I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine,
particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than
Doubly portcullis'd with my teeth and lips;
Caesar, I will:
I laugh'd him out of patience; and that night
Are nursed by baseness. Thou'rt by no means valiant;
And name thee in election for the empire,
Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son
bettered expectation than you must expect of me to
Woe, alas!
services, that you would think that I had a hundred
Hoy-day, what a sweep of vanity comes this way!
Many a bounteous year must be employ'd
But to win time
With torch-staves in their hand; and their poor jades
We shall be charged again. Whiles we have struck,
And now they meet where both their lives are done.
Pattern'd by that the poet here describes,
But what indeed is honest to be done:
Come, gentlemen, let's all go visit him:
To such proceeding
By a letter, I should say.
You or any man living may be drunk! at a time, man.
Get on your cloak, and haste you to Lord Timon;
Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know,
She shall not strike Dame Eleanor unrevenged.
I would you had her spirit in such another:
So that all hope is vain.
Give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits
Would I were young for your sake, Mistress Anne!
Or, like the Parthian, I shall flying fight;
it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing
Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the
SCENE I. Wales: near the cave of Belarius.
for the which you are to do me both a present and a
Falstaff will learn the humour of the age,
That same villain, Romeo.
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
I should know that voice: it should be--but he is
You understand me: over and beside
To ransom home revolted Mortimer.
And in this resolution here we leave you.--
The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill.
Well, sir, here is for your pains. What said she?
Master, it is no time to chide you now;
Enter Messenger
What manner of man is he?
He is not yet arrived: nor know I aught
As were a war in expectation.
You break no privilege nor charter there.
By breaking through the foul and ugly mists
publish her; she bore a mind that envy could not but
He closes with you in this consequence;
What news, my lord?
Say you?
So tell your cousin, and bring me word
God bless the king!
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
evasions have ears thus long. I have bobbed his
Or to be naked with her friend in bed
Holla the other.
It is a manacle of love; I'll place it
alike and none less dear than thine and my good
SONG.
example my digression by some mighty precedent.
Exeunt
To any syllable that made love to you.
Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels.
The fourth son; York claims it from the third.
Good fellows all,
Some of us love you well; and even those some
outswear Cupid. Comfort, me, boy: what great men
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it;
If I do so, it will be of more price,
then look for your reward. I'll be at hand, sir; see
O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt? See,
Wast born to bear? I was not made a horse;
Whom their o'er-cloyed country vomits forth
Or lose mine arm fort: thou hast beat me out
Here, set it down.
Have chose as umpire of their mutiny:
And milk comes frozen home in pail,
Enter BUSHY
I hazarded the loss of whom I loved.
you be ready for that, you are well cooked.
Navarre had notice of your fair approach;
So, let her rest: and, madam, list to me;
The plebeians have got your fellow-tribune
laid to the charge of women?
Madam, I wish it may.
The nobles in great earnestness are going
When thou wert regent for our sovereign,
Come, your hand;
Lest it make you choleric and purchase me another
Something--I know not what: I'll love thee much,
I am no traitor.
And to defend ourselves it be a sin
This dangerous treason lurking in our way
That had befall'n us. As we paced along
now with, 'knocking at the gate'?
His good sword in his hand.
Coal-black is better than another hue,
Go, Gratiano, run and overtake him;
And didst in signs again parley with sin;
That cannot be:
yet; that you answer to Pyramus: you speak all your
Hence with thy stripes, begone!
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more,
Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
Give you good morrow!
With fervency drew up.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
And calls your grace usurper openly
Which else runs tickling up and down the veins,
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
Unsafe the while, that we
Let the high office and the honour go
That thou art banished--O, that's the news!--
What's your will, sir? what's your will?
Well it shall be so. But there is two hard things;
You take my part from me, sir; I have the most cause
Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did
Cursed be the hand that made these fatal holes!
What says Lord Warwick? shall we after them?
My Lord of Westmoreland, lead him to his tent.
Before you, Lepidus.
Correction and instruction must both work
Let us with care perform his great behest.
notice to such men of sort and suit as are to meet
Hark, hark, my lord! what shouts are these?
In what I further shall intend to do,
Which hath our several honours all engaged
As easily as I do tear his paper.
And be these juggling fiends no more believed,
O you most potent gods! what's here? a corse!
Exit GURNEY
miry a place, how she was bemoiled, how he left her
Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,
Obedience bids I should not bid again.
On chaliced flowers that lies;
And that it should lie with you in your grave:
Whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof
His wife is in Corioli and his child
As Cassius' legions are by Antony.
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
It should be look'd to: come.
Your most obedient counsellor, yet that dare
liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress Ford and Mistress Page
Re-enter GHOST OF BANQUO
Kent, sir, the banish'd Kent; who in disguise
And so riveted with faith unto your flesh.
O Seigneur Dieu!
Even from the east to the west!
daughters, of what complexion soever; and so buffets
beard is turned white with the news: you may buy
Having neither subject, wealth, nor diadem.
To think upon her woes I do protest
The ruthless queen gave him to dry his cheeks
They come like sacrifices in their trim,
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
ungartered!
As doth a raven on a sick-fall'n beast,
And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best
If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
like, which else would stand under grievous
Sir, I praise the Lord for you; and so may my
I beg the law, the law, upon his head.
To bid his young son welcome to his grave?
To me, your friend, than any.
Hermione, my dearest, thou never spokest
I am no orator, as Brutus is;
The horn and noise o' the monster's, wants not spirit
Dear life redeems you. You perceive she stirs:
Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
SCENE II. CAESAR's house.
Will never do him good, not one of you.
Each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
And shamed life a hateful.
Whose overweening arm I have pluck'd back,
Evermore showering? In one little body
behaviors to love, will, after he hath laughed at
Imprison'd is he, say you?
looks, your red-lattice phrases, and your
There is enough written upon this earth
Thou know'st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives.
My life, sir! how, I pray? for that goes hard.
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:
To say extremity was the trier of spirits;
I have promised to make all this matter even.
Too proud to be so valiant.
Yet none of you would once plead for his life.
lent him visitation.
And brother-love I do it.
Well, sir.
Come, where is this young gallant that is so
And yet it cannot overtake your slow purse.
Stand away, Captain Gower; I will give treason his
Nor can there be that deity in my nature,
That ever Katharina will be woo'd;
Say what I think of it, since I have found
Wear gold: and no man that hath a name,
Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
And you are darken'd in this action, sir,
Lechery, lechery; still, wars and lechery; nothing
I think my husband hath some special suspicion of
That dwell in vegetives, in metals, stones;
If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love,
And I am sick at heart.
Though daintily brought up, with patience more
Pray You, fetch him hither.
To Christian intercessors. Follow not;
Because so well I love Lucentio.
To hang clogs on them. I have done, my lord.
They sit
With willing sport to the wild ocean.
Mount them, and make incision in their hides,
She's very near her hour.
hanged, and then to confess.--I tremble at it.
Exit
And so will I.
For it is known we were but hollow friends:
More plentiful than tools to do't, struck down
Enter GRUMIO
Fathers that wear rags
Why, then may you leave a casement of the great
of profession: one would think it were Mistress
That it yields nought but shame and bitterness.
Exit Page
And mighty states characterless are grated
Bring me the fairest creature northward born,
For it doth physic love: of his content,
PINDARUS descends
play is preferred. In any case, let Thisby have
There is a written scroll! I'll read the writing.
In thy tail!
I know not, sir.
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
Which to maintain I would allow him odds,
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
First, Marcus Brutus, will I shake with you;
That do outface it with their semblances.
Would I might
The king hath of you.
The crows and choughs that wing the midway air
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO, and two or three others
To see this gracious season.
Secure of thunder's crack or lightning flash;
The dishes are uncovered and seen to be full of warm water
This day is ours, as many more shall be.
Convey me Salisbury into his tent,
all. Wither, garden; and be henceforth a
Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,
So many greedy looks of young and old
England, bound in with the triumphant sea
O Scotland, Scotland!
If the duke continue these favours towards you,
If your leisure served, I would speak with you.
'Tis now your honour, daughter, to explain
Yet see no shelter to avoid the storm;
do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar,
I prithee, Diomed, visit me no more.
That to close prison he commanded her,
perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little
I am not an impostor that proclaim
Sings heavy music to thy timorous soul;
That takes the reason prisoner?
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
the nose, as if you snuffed up love by smelling
She'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice
Into the eye and prospect of his soul,
Let it no more bring out ingrateful man!
Adieu; be happy!
love to take thy father for mine: so wouldst thou,
Go off; I discard you: let me enjoy my private: go
Mother Jourdain, be you
I am dumb.
Exit
Whose loss hath pierced him deep and scarr'd his heart;
That ever yet this land was guilty of.
That it doth hate what gets it.
Master Brook, I will be thrown into Etna, as I have
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket
If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
As chimney-sweepers, come to dust.
My lord; I do confess I ne'er was married;
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
And, in the doing of the deed of kind,
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, with Attendants
honour two notorious benefactors.
Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius:
Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee;
My Ariel, chick,
Is now urged on you.
She swore, in faith, twas strange, 'twas passing strange,
How sure you are my daughter. But, what music?
Or here I'll cease.
By learned approbation of the judges. If I am
This is a soldier's kiss: rebukeable
Enter Constable
Begins his golden progress in the east.
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for:
the instant: by heart you love her, because your
My blemishes in them, and so still think of
Not sound, I say.
Enter MELUN, wounded
She embraces him.
The Britons have razed out, though with the loss
Enter QUEEN MARGARET, behind
offence to my inferiors.
And proofs as clear as founts in July when
That unassailable holds on his rank,
Like him by chance. Yet give us our dispatch:
By my troth, thou hast an open hand. These wise men
Re-enter LYSANDER
I'll be before thee.
I will attend upon your lordship's leisure.
and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
Exeunt
christened.
How is't, my noble lord?
Farewell, dear father!
Redeeming time when men think least I will.
Into what pitch he please.
To beggarly divorcement--love him dearly,
Who, having some advantage on Octavius,
Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all;
O, my heart bleeds
Yet am I Suffolk and the cardinal's broker.
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
'Twas by rebellion against his king.
Will we acquaint with all that we intend;
That I, forsooth, am stern, and love them not?
ANTIPHOLUS
So was I bid report here to the state
Steps aside
Trumpet, blow loud,
Whose grossness little characters sum up:
But when her humorous ladyship is by
With many children by you: if, in the course
remember it.
Who's that at door? good uncle, go and see.
And I will kill thee, if thou dost deny
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
For your own reasons turn into your bosoms,
O, this same thought did but forerun my need;
I should have ta'en some pains to bring together
But since you come too late of our intents,
I pray thee, mark me--that a brother should
Even now we housed him in the abbey here;
Herself most chastely absent: after this,
I beseech your honour,
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
Beat at this gate, that let thy folly in,
prologues to a bad voice?
The knife that made it.
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait,
But think you, Helen,
That is now answered.
state totters.
But count the world a stranger for thy sake.
No friend, no hope; no kindred weep for me;
Master-Gunner	Sirrah, thou know'st how Orleans is besieged,
Your honour with your form.
Look how thou stirrest now! come away, or I'll
My lord hath interest in them, I will keep them
ACT IV
See, she will speak to him.
Do all expect that you should rouse yourself,
Exeunt KING LEAR and KENT
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place
else holds fashion: a burning devil take them!
Must I then do't to them?
They place themselves in every corner of the stage
A justice of peace sometimes may be beholding to his
Would I were able to load him with his desert! Will
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
This tribute from us, we were free:
A knocking heard
Lechery?
To keep them from uncivil outrages.
COUNTESS
Didst thou not kill this king?
By the blood we have shed together, by the vows
No, madam, I do but read madness: an your ladyship
Is to be frighted out of fear; and in that mood
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
He is frank'd up to fatting for his pains
With many heads butts me away. Nay, mother,
And will dispatch.
If both remain alive: to take the widow
From his ambitious finger. What had he
entertainment.
As I have received it.
You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
there. Be the players ready?
An old thing 'twas, but it express'd her fortune,
And with all speed post with him toward the north,
A soul as even as a calm: pray, think us
Alexander the Great.
As the winter to foul weather.
If I want gold, steal but a beggar's dog,
You pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me?
Exeunt
To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour
fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour: he hath
them than mortal knowledge. When I burned in desire
That trusted home
I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it:
May't please your highness sit.
It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul,--
Waked by the lark, hath roused the ribald crows,
And then to Calais; and to England then:
Orsino, this is that Antonio
We do not come as minding to contest you,
Taurus!
So I say.
In Fulvia's death, how mine received shall be.
No man bears sorrow better. Portia is dead.
Call Coriolanus.
No,'tis his kind of speech: he did not mock us.
Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide.
It is not lost; but what an if it were?
Why, noble lords,
Rough and unhospitable: my willing love,
A devil in an everlasting garment hath him;
To Cymbeline perform'd:
wisely, wisely.
Think you there was, or might be, such a man
Muster your wits; stand in your own defence;
To try your taking a false report; which hath
And now forward; for we have put thee in countenance.
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
You will not bail me, then, sir?
flint for want of meat, depart reeling with too
And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbour:
Have all forsook me, hath devour'd the rest;
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
Then with Scotland first begin:'
welcome. I reckon this always, that a man is never
But how he died God knows, not Henry:
Come down.
Sweet lady, you have given me life and living;
Fulvia thy wife is dead.
may be ready for our apprehension.
Wherefore did they not
All that he is hath reference to your highness.
This news, I think, hath turn'd your weapon's edge;
Prithee, do, Jack.
How now, old lad?
Is not Prince Troilus here?
O base Hungarian wight! wilt thou the spigot wield?
But did you not request to have it cut?
And kneel, sweet boy, the Roman Hector's hope;
You had a bastard by Polixenes,
You could never do him so ill-well, unless you were
That Clarence is so harsh, so blunt, unnatural,
Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
Full fifteen hundred, besides common men.
Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your
By your own counsel is suppress'd and kill'd:
But what a fool am I to chat with you,
He is a very proper man.
pills to cool the reins. Call her in.
Wicked and vile; and so her death concludes.
For who so firm that cannot be seduced?
Sir Robert could do well: marry, to confess,
And now to Helen is it home return'd,
Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?
Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
Worthy Montano, you were wont be civil;
And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,
But herein mean I to enrich my pain,
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
So should we save a valiant gentleman
My commission
When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails
With who?
Exit
Tax of impudence,
Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
Before me, she's a good wench.
Shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.
tend on no man's business, laugh when I am merry and
Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men
The vision. Enter, solemnly tripping one after  another, six personages, clad in white robes,  wearing on their heads garlands of bays, and golden  vizards on their faces; branches of bays or palm in  their hands. They first congee unto her, then  dance; and, at certain changes, the first two hold  a spare garland over her head; at which the other  four make reverent curtsies; then the two that held  the garland deliver the same to the other next two,  who observe the same order in their changes, and  holding the garland over her head: which done,  they deliver the same garland to the last two, who  likewise observe the same order: at which, as it  were by inspiration, she makes in her sleep signs  of rejoicing, and holdeth up her hands to heaven:  and so in their dancing vanish, carrying the garland with them. The music continues
Exeunt
Till by broad spreading it disperse to nought.
March on, and mark King Richard how he looks.
Your reason, mighty lord?
I will be good to thee.
fair on Friday as Helen is on Sunday. But what care
And make thee curse the harvest of that corn.
With trees upon't, that nod unto the world,
Under the countenance and confederacy
Re-enter ULYSSES
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
A Roman and a British ensign wave
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
signior, walk aside with me: I have studied eight
I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy stol'n name
Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria,
To go with us unto the officers.
half, hauf; neighbour vocatur nebor; neigh
Re-enter Pedant below; TRANIO, BAPTISTA, and Servants
A mighty man of Pisa; by report
'Shall I bid him go?'
I do remember in this shepherd boy
Do so. Between nine and ten, sayest thou?
You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves
Look, Hector, how the sun begins to set;
Vanquish my staider senses. What's the matter?
No, Valentine.
You do not?
through ford and whirlipool e'er bog and quagmire;
of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
What stays had I but they? and they are gone.
be swine-drunk; and in his sleep he does little
As black and white, my eye will scarcely see it.
That doth sustain my house; you take my life
SCENE III. The same. A street.
Something to save thy life.
And therefore banish'd--is a creature such
Denounced against thee, are all fall'n upon thee;
Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through:
afternoon Barnardine: for my better satisfaction,
He has discover'd my design, and I
Saw you the cardinal?
Know, then, that some of us are gentlemen,
'Faith, I have heard too much, for your words and
Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
This ornament of knighthood, yea or no.
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
there is shrewd construction made of her. Now, Sir
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
The devil speed him! no man's pie is freed
Then you, belike, suspect these noblemen
I do desire we may be better strangers.
To render up the great seal presently
I'll dive into the burning lake below,
Re-enter KING RICHARD, RATCLIFF, Attendants and Forces
You peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!
So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
Exeunt TROILUS and AENEAS
Now, pray, sir, get you gone:
have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what
of my power, and so stand aloof for more serious
For hateful deeds committed by myself!
Fair one, all goodness that consists in bounty
Whose credit with the judge, or own great place,
That shapes man better; and they follow him,
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;
And hearten those that fight in your defence:
Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled mirth;
Pyramus: I hope she will be brief.
I thought no less: it is his policy
Which would be so much the more dangerous
cause, and be silent, that you may hear: believe me
The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags!
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
'They have press'd a power, but it is not known
spectatorship, and crueller in suffering; behold now
And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare
Thou hadst a Richard, till a Richard killed him;
Speak, good Sicinius.
She is abused, stol'n from me, and corrupted
worm-eaten nut.
But till 'twere known!
They do consume the thing that feeds their fury:
So let us still continue peace and love.
Hast thou, which art but air, a touch, a feeling
That I did so when I was first assured.
Made it a fool and beggar. The two kings,
Tongues spit their duties out, and cold hearts freeze
And drawing days out, that men stand upon.
And, where I thought the remnant of mine age
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
And let them grapple: O, the blood more stirs
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
From forth the noise and rumour of the field,
Setting down his basket
And with their faint reply this answer join;
entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed.
lay my countenance to pawn; I have grated upon my
Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it;
But 'twas thy heavenly face that set me on.
Chattels, and whatsoever, and to be
Even with the sword that kill'd thee.
To your best kindness: one of your great knowing
And loses that it works for.
For 'tis my limited service.
It is in us to plant thine honour where
Shame to him whose cruel striking
Now hazarded to thy grace.
Happy in this, she is not yet so old
Men for their sons, wives for their husbands,
Pillicock sat on Pillicock-hill:
To their right praise and true perfection!
Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
He's that he is: I may not breathe my censure
This is true;
Doth choke the air with dust: in, and prepare:
With that she's big with; for 'tis Polixenes
Rise up Sir John Mortimer.
Of something nearly that concerns yourselves.
His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us
Your company at dinner.
To load a falling man.
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
Here they skirmish again
have me? Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the
Out, some light horsemen, and peruse their wings.
I would not spare my brother in this case,
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
Something he left imperfect in the
itself ten, which is a goodly increase; and the
His beard was as white as snow,
his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish: the
Let him go hence, and with his cap in hand,
That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity,
But it is doubtful yet,
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
shepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how these
Which neither here I'll keep nor bear again,
I am sorry for't: the man is a proper man, of mine
And all-admiring with an inward wish
pen down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my
Does yet depend.
Or, as it were, the pageants of the sea,
Would move a monster.
To my daughters; and tell them both,
Worse than tears drown: beseech you all, my lords,
You had but that opinion of yourself
Not to be spoke of;
Ay, it is no matter.
I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
In company I often glanced it;
The deed you undertake is damnable.
I know my life so even. If your business
And whine aloud for mercy: take him hence.
DON
This kindness will I show.
Which by thy younger brother is supplied,
Then, Buckingham, I do dismiss my powers.
You have heard much.
I think that one of them is hereabout,
That our swift-winged souls may catch the king's;
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
And they expect it from me.
At a poor man's house; he used me kindly:
Of much less value is my company
and against your cony-catching rascals, Bardolph,
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
With a swain's wearing, and me, poor lowly maid,
What prisoners of good sort are taken, uncle?
The several chairs of order look you scour
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
This was well done, my bird.
[Aside]  'Tis true; such pearls as put out
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet,
And our oppression hath made up this league.
In what part of her body stands Ireland?
As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
An if the shepherd be a while away.
This wine for Lepidus!
Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose;
They know not how their wits to wear,
I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.
The duke must grant me that: besides, his picture
Having determined of the Volsces and
Have after-nourishment and life by care;
If you might please to stretch it.
Go to; say you nothing. There's a division betwixt
To whom God will, there be the victory!
Which he enforced from me, away he posts
me: for the life to come, I sleep out the thought
remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
Here is a purr of fortune's, sir, or of fortune's
Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you,
O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
In which assault we lost twelve hundred men;
Bid him not fear the separated councils
thrown into the Thames, and cooled, glowing hot,
I did swear patience.
'Faith, that's with watching; 'twill away again:
How now, my noble friend! since I came hither,
The surge most swoln that met him; his bold head
And are not you my husband?
Exit
A prize! a prize!
If the great gods be just, they shall assist
constancy put to sea, that their business might be
That art not what thou'rt sure of! Get thee hence:
And she believes, wherever they are gone,
But, since it serves my purpose, I will venture
Marry, she says that the very same man that
To wipe out our ingratitude with loves
Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born.
O, thou shalt find--
Have misbecomed our oaths and gravities,
KING JOHN dies
manifested effect, I crave but four days' respite;
I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
may call beasts.
the tongs and the bones.
Acts of black night, abominable deeds,
Now, I pray God, amen!
Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right her!
The heir of his reward;
Say, where shall's lay him?
I knew 'twould be a bald conclusion:
Exeunt ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER and Provost
And let it be mine honour, good my lord,
You, like a lecher, out of whorish loins
Exeunt
Might well have warm'd old Saturn; that I thought her
day into the compassed window,--and, you know, he
And strong encounter of my amorous tale:
How joyful am I made by this contract!
Day, my lord.
When I do stare, see how the subject quakes.
O Tullus,--
Another spread on's breast, mounting his eyes
But yet my caution was more pertinent
No; I say nay to that.
This gentleman told somewhat of my tale,--
Dead, if you will; but not to be his wife,
Enter PRINCE HENRY and PETO, marching, and FALSTAFF meets them playing on his truncheon like a life
Like the poor cat i' the adage?
What say'st thou, my lady?
here. Do you understand me?
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
These are the limbs o' the plot: no more, I hope.
We have made to endure friends, that you directly
Uplift us to the view; in their thick breaths,
mouths in a glass.
Exit
Very foul.
To mark the full-fraught man and best indued
Commends me to the thing I cannot get.
may shine in at the casement.
Some merry mocking lord, belike; is't so?
For both our sakes, I would that word were true.
Where is your master?
Advancing
Good night, good night: heaven me such uses send,
dangerous courtesy.
In further evil?
My uncles both are slain in rescuing me;
We may, sir, if we will.
Then cursed she Hastings, then cursed she Buckingham,
Enter, with drum and colours, EDMUND, REGAN, Gentlemen, and Soldiers.
Re-enter KING LEAR
Until the goose came out of door,
If beauty, wisdom, modesty, can settle
Or bring your latter hazard back again
A blessed lottery to him.
Other conclusions? I will try the forces
And ever welcome to us.
What! how! how!
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
Sister, farewell; I must to Coventry:
Hath she forsworn me?
There's a good mother, boy, that blots thy father.
O'erpays all I can do. By this, your king
Then let me go and hinder not my course
My dear-loved cousin, and my dearer lord?
Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  He knows the game: how true
How much low peasantry would then be glean'd
a'leven-pence farthing better: most sweet gardon! I
Let her who would be rid of him devise
While he did bear my countenance in the town;
woes also: and yet there is a virtuous man whom I
And danger serves among then!
With all the effect of love.
hope, here is a play fitted.
You throw a strange regard upon me, and by that
Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up.
so great, Hortensio, but we may blow our nails
Is't not a kind of incest, to take life
A kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and Soldiers
I false! Thy conscience witness: Iachimo,
I do beseech your grace,
Of our dominions, and that there thou leave it,
There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
You may deny that you were not the cause
Welsh devil Hugh?
There is a litter ready; lay him in 't,
And portance in my travels' history:
The light and careless livery that it wears
Ajax hath ta'en AEneas: shall it be?
Now let it work. Mischief, thou art afoot,
Because he loves her, he despiseth me;
Mock not, that I affect the untraded oath;
Stand.
souls out of one weaver? shall we do that?
His love, too long ago! I am old, my lords,
the rooms of them that have bought out their
Why, then she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.
Of my young Harry. O that it could be proved
And now I have the boy, I will undo
For any suit of pounds; and you, O fate!
Nought shall go ill;
points in my target, thus.
Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en,
Good den, good den.
At any time speak aught?
So long could I
Four days ago.
And that so lamely and unfashionable
Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain:
Then though my heart's content firm love doth bear,
These thoughts of horror further than you shall
Exeunt
Whose far unworthy deputy I am,
And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur
not thou, when thou art king, hang a thief.
But who comes here?
All these the enemies to our poor bark.
Which I mistrusted not. Farewell, therefore, Hero!
Ay, for the state, not for Antonio.
Thou art the issue of my dear offence,
And from the bishop's huntsmen rescued him;
As yet I do not: but, as I can learn,
The Spaniard, tied blood and favour to her,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
Our own brains, and the opinion that we bring,
To do some fatal execution?
I grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.
And I    and now we three have spoke it,
In every borough as we pass along;
Arm, fight, and conquer, for fair England's sake!
Further in the proceeding.
That he should, for a foreign purse, so sell
And call them pillars that will stand to us;
Exit
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me
I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind,
Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms,
And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
Ay; is't not strange?
What authority surfeits on would relieve us: if they
What news? how does pretty Mistress Anne?
Must I receive, whose every word deserves
[Aside]  You are cock and capon too; and you crow,
his fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman
My worthy Cawdor!
To make the even truth in pleasure flow.
Than Julius Caesar or bright--
Something hath been amiss--a noble nature
To work exceeding miracles on earth.
Let's all sink with the king.
When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,
fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock. If I may be
Now I do frown on thee with all my heart;
Pompey the Great and all his dignities
Both strength of limb and policy of mind,
To prison, till fit time
Why, then the world and all that's in't is nothing;
I think it doth: is't frailty that thus errs?
Some necessaries that I needs must use,
Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world
Because I love you, I will let you know:
Will you leave me there?
innocency Adam fell; and what should poor Jack
The place is dignified by the doer's deed:
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
This last old man,
gives thee better counsel, give me mine again: I
Nay, keep your way, little gallant; you were wont to
He doth object I am too great of birth--,
Barkloughly castle call they this at hand?
Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems
out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-
Your reputation comes too short for my daughter; you
Here is my hand for my true constancy;
You leer upon me, do you? there's an eye
'Tis for the followers fortune widens them,
Your bondage happy, to be made a queen?
the dukes; and a worse matter than that: I have
No, by this hand.
Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice
Whose vows are, that no bed-right shall be paid
Take off his miseries.
Thou mightst be freed.
The greatest strength and power he can make,
What, is he in his bed?
knave it is: I hope your majesty is pear me
Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death,
Come; fear you not: good counsellors lack no
Friends should associate friends in grief and woe:
I think the devil will not have me damned, lest the
Some violent hands were laid on Humphrey's life!
A special party, have, by common voice,
Crying confusion.
turned heathen, a very renegado; for there is no
Farewell, good brother: we shall thrive, I trust.
He finds himself beholding to us all.
difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia.
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
And there I left him tranced.
Youth so apt to pluck a sweet!
He would not call me son.
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
And, sir, it is no little thing to make
His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast:
And those boils did run? say so: did not the
In faith, I'll break thy little finger, Harry,
thee, captain,
It comes from Padua, from Bellario:
Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive senses
And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence
All those which were his fellows but of late,
Bade me enjoy it, with the place and honours,
Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear,
And on it said a century of prayers,
I have sat too long.
big enough; if it be too big for your thief, your
His heart as far from fraud as heaven from earth.
The mutual conference that my mind hath had,
And when that hour o'erslips me in the day
Who, then, dares to be half so kind again?
As I saw it inclined: when was the hour
king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
Is leaning cheek to cheek? is meeting noses?
Let not the hours of this ungodly day
Follow me, then. Lord Helicane, a word.
But you have all the vantage of her wrong.
I send it through the rivers of your blood,
Never speak: we charge you let us obey you to go with us.
is that honour? air. A trim reckoning! Who hath it?
Even from this instant, banish him our city,
I find thee apt;
More monstrous standing by: whereof I reckon
Whereof we have record, trial did draw
miscarried, my creditors grow cruel, my estate is
Of me and all that I can make;
What would they, say they?
men.
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
Help, ho! murder! murder!
And the nobility of Rome are his:
'Was' is not 'is:' besides, the oath of a lover is
Would stretch thy spirits up into the air:
No, believe me.
Come hither, Moor:
And so much duty as my mother show'd
Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid!
Would serve your turns.
The sea enraged is not half so deaf,
Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his
And you embrace the occasion to depart.
What said the wench when he rose again?
Nor for yours neither. You've ungently, Brutus,
I made unto the noise; when soon I heard
Appear in forms more horrid,--yet my duty,
'My lady's father'! my lord's knave: your
Enter POMPEY, MENECRATES, and MENAS, in warlike manner
I have a suit to you.
Is yonder the man?
Will make him fly an ordinary pitch,
Or dare to bring thy force so near the court.
That you shall think the devil is come from hell.
worn himself, and the rod he might have bestowed on
All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears
Patience, thou young and rose-lipp'd cherubin,--
The letter, as I live, with all the business
And able horses. No porter at his gate,
Lady, a word: I'll bring you to your father.
If we no more meet till we meet in heaven,
To make a seemly answer to such persons.
Not cast aside so soon.
Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain,
I cannot give due action to my words,
Without, my noble lords?
Beloved of me; and that my deeds shall prove.
And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze:
They say he cried out of sack.
I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,
Than Prospero, master of a full poor cell,
With what?
I speak in respect--
It is a basilisk unto mine eye,
As Caesar's death hour, nor no instrument
That hatred is so far from jealousy,
To whom he sends, and what's his embassy:
Come, to the port. I'll tell thee, Diomed,
One of the three to share it?
Shore his old thread in twain: did he live now,
Come, kiss.
More womanly than he; hardly gave audience, or
Tell her, my love, more noble than the world,
He bores me with some trick: he's gone to the king;
To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul.
My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle!
will either be food for it or bring it for food to
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
For we no longer are defensible.
By throwing it on any other object
And if words will not, then our weapons shall.
That hand, which, for thy love, did kill thy love,
You did nothing, sir.
Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
Please you, gentlemen,
We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready
Until this day, to scour it in the dust.
I'll be with you again,
Was better worth than all my father's lands,
Which is not yet perform'd me.
For I do love her most unfeignedly.
Good my lord,--
Sir, here's the door, this is Lucentio's house:
Yet give leave, my lord,
Distinctly his full function.
And therefore let me be thus bold with you
Which, I dare vouch, is more than that he hath,
Perdie, your doors were lock'd and you shut out.
We are too well acquainted with these answers:
Do not draw back, for we will mourn with thee
As potent as a lord's. Will you go yet?
Re-enter SIMPLE
And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
A good rebuke,
As doubtful whether what I see be true,
And therein show'd like enemies.
ACT I
You show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds,
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
If 'twere not she, I cannot tell who told me.
such volubility, that you would think truth were a
To make him worthy whose offence subdues him
Hail to you, provost! so I think you are.
Saying, 'Cousin Toby, my fortunes having cast me on
this noise?
Tush, that was in thy rage:
But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel's.
He may command me as my sovereign;
Which they have often made against the senate,
Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
do you know of it?
And make the babbling gossip of the air
I will come last. 'Tis like he'll question me
to herself: it is very true.
it provokes the desire, but it takes
That hath so cowarded and chased your blood
We then have done you bold and saucy wrongs;
After this golden day of victory.
Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there.
Who? Camillo?
And fought so long, till that his thighs with darts
which pitifully disaster the cheeks.
Or show the glory of our art?
To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight:
Well, let that pass. Dorset is fled to Richmond.
loved, no sooner loved but they sighed, no sooner
As doth import you.
This will I tell my lady straight: I would not be
Ay, if his enemy deliver it:
be many that they have loved, they know not
gold a counterfeit: thou art essentially mad,
And who should say, 'I would thou wert the man'
dial is now upon the prick of noon.
church, and have a good priest that can tell you
Enter Ghost
Have stood to charity, and display'd the effects
Well met; good morrow, Titus and Hortensius.
Why?
Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks not
And never see the Louvre.
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Still, I swear I love you.
capon and eat it? wherein cunning, but in craft?
Why do you put these sayings upon me?
Yes, that I will; and wherefore will I do it?
'Your meat doth burn,' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he:
Hail, Dian! to perform thy just command,
The next is this, King John hath reconciled
For now sits Expectation in the air,
Now, sir, to you.
For Livia and Octavia, to induce
The heaven sets spies upon us, will not have
And tricking for our fairies.
The worst of words.
And what loss is it to be rid of care?
[Aside]  Now Winchester will not submit, I trow,
Never believe it:
He will have other means to cut you off.
Our courtiers say all's savage but at court:
What is your parentage?
Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers;
Andronicus, stain not thy tomb with blood:
That he was never trained up in arms.
Although this lord of weak remembrance, this,
Good old knight,
So kind a father of the commonweal,
Lovel and Ratcliff, look that it be done:
Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords.
To stay him from the fall of vanity:
He was much famed.
Come, you are so full of cony-catching!
Now, afore God, I am so vexed, that every part about
O, peace, Paulina!
But, touch'd with human gentleness and love,
Against our borrowing prayers.
Of all perfections that a man may owe,
With loyal blazon, evermore be blest!
Enough: my soul shall then be satisfied.
Exit
Shed on the earth, for thy return to Rome:
Where virtue is, these are more virtuous:
Ay, be so, good Touchstone.
Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable:
God safely quit her of her burthen, and
I thought King Henry had resembled thee
Or never be so noble as a consul,
Then turn your forces from this paltry siege
Than what he found himself was apt and true.
Or till the Destinies do cut his thread of life.
I'll love no friend, sith love breeds such offence.
For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
'tis; here's my mother's breath up and down. Now
lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
Their ships are yare; yours, heavy: no disgrace
Along the field I will the Trojan trail.
He is knight, dubbed with unhatched rapier and on
She alone knew this;
No, this was he, Messala,
But from her need.
Where I did meet thee once with Helena,
Than that of thought. Suppose that you have seen
You say very true, scauld knave, when God's will is:
concerning your marriage.
Tush, tush! fear boys with bugs.
It is ashamed to bear me! Friends, come hither:
'Tis the way
And, as the long divorce of steel falls on me,
And strokes death to her.
Into the good thoughts of the world again,
When I should mount with wings of victory:
I thank thee for that jest; here's a garment for't:
What things are these, my lord Antonio?
And do some service to Duke Humphrey's ghost.
Thy humble servant vows obedience
You sheep, and I pasture: shall that finish the jest?
Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters,
two and thirty, a pip out? Whom would to God I had
Noblest of men, woo't die?
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,
Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost;
He? alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.
A trumpet within
How easily murder is discovered!
You should not use me so.
In soft and delicate Lethe.
Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
What they are, yet I know not: but they shall be
And have no more of life than may suffice
May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
Look in upon me then and speak with me,
O, yes; and went between us very oft.
What, is the fellow mad?
That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
It doth amount to one more than two.
more hereafter.
Speak unto Talbot; nay, look up to him.
But brats and beggary, in self-figured knot;
brother is royally entertained by Leonato: and I
Exeunt all but YORK
From her material sap, perforce must wither
Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
Our instruments to melancholy bells,
I never yet beheld that special face
How now, my lords!
to this man how Don John your brother incensed me
The plainer dealer, the sooner lost: yet he loseth
Seize thee that list: if once I find thee ranging,
Hath often still'd my brawling discontent.
He'ld lay the future open. You good gods,
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
I shall not look upon his like again.
They say miracles are past; and we have our
Weigh it but with the grossness of this age,
He sheweth him a paper
SCENE I. LEONATO'S garden.
Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reason
Deserves a corner: would all other women
Shall we dance now the Egyptian Bacchanals,
'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this
up my rest to run away, so I will not rest till I
To him, I say!
What dost thou know?
Power into will, will into appetite;
Brought hither to Pentapolis,
The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He
knock me well, and knock me soundly'? And come you
But tell not me; I know, Antonio
You were a moveable.
Though all the world's vastidity you had,
In hope thyself should govern Rome and me.
She says enough; yet she's a simple bawd
Holding out gold that's by the touchstone tried;
The Lord forbid!
Not so sick, my lord,
A coin that bears the figure of an angel
I have named him oft.
and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs.
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
No, Harry, Harry, 'tis no land of thine;
That Thaisa am I, supposed dead
Enter ABHORSON
town is beseeched, and the trumpet call us to the
On such regards of safety and allowance
What Trojan is that same that looks so heavy?
Exeunt
Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be.
Have I not tarried?
society,--which in the boorish is company,--of this
To make amends, Ill give it to your daughter.
Even so great men great losses should endure.
I doubt it not, sir; but you will curse your
Exit an Attendant
O, peace! now he's deeply in: look how
Which, to say sooth, are blessings; and which gifts,
Never did thought of mine levy offence;
We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
Sir Smile, his neighbour: nay, there's comfort in't
More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
troll-my-dames; I knew him once a servant of the
SCENE III. A hall in the castle.
And to preserve my sovereign from his foe,
And of a dragon and a finless fish,
So let high-sighted tyranny range on,
Ay, uncle, we will keep it, if we can;
Why, she hath given you a letter.
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well;
I hope so, Lepidus. Thus we are agreed:
When devils will the blackest sins put on,
The witch in Smithfield shall be burn'd to ashes,
And you withal shall make all Gallia shake.
Do you hear, masters? do you hear?
That so neglected you.
SCENE II. Venice. A street.
Edmund, farewell.
Forbid the sun to enter, like favourites,
[Reads]  'To the unknown beloved, this, and my good
What you would ask me, that I should deny,
honour; unless I find him guilty, he shall not die.
Ay, madam, twenty several messengers:
Kneels
Is't possible, my lord?
I'll come to you anon.
My honour'd lord.
The strides they victors made: and now our cowards,
These lazy knaves? Ye have made a fine hand, fellows:
gift is good in those in whom it is acute, and I am
He wooes both high and low, both rich and poor,
for they loved well when they were alive. Now part
I am less proud to hear you tell my worth
Our empress' shame, and stately Rome's disgrace!
And, let me tell you, it will ne'er be well,
Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it.
She's not well married that lives married long;
Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas'
But Jove was never slain, as thou shalt be.
SCENE I. A Sea-port in Cyprus. An open place near the quay.
My father had a daughter loved a man,
And so suppose am I; for in his grave
A good traveller is something at the latter end of a
married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will.
Trow you who hath done this?
Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
Throwing down SOMERSET's head
See, your guests approach:
me a young doctor of Rome; his name is Balthasar. I
Old Nestor tarries; and you too, Diomed,
My hour is almost come,
To thirty thousand.
Thou canst help time to furrow me with age,
What shall I say? to safeguard thine own life,
Something of moment then: I will go meet him:
Meet thee at Milford-Haven!--I forgot to ask him one
With labour and the thing she took to quench it,
When, after execution, judgment hath
Fair encounter
Dromio, nor thou?
I mean, that with my soul I love thy daughter,
Despairing died.
an oak but with one green leaf on it would have
Enter a Townsman of Saint Alban's, crying 'A miracle!'
Sits in the wind against me.
That wrought upon thee so preposterously
Being awake, enforce them to this place,
For I am sick and capable of fears,
Farewell, kind lord; fight valiantly to-day:
Exit
Faults proper to himself: if he had so offended,
Do I entice you? do I speak you fair?
To tutor thee in stratagems of war,
Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray!
do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.
'Tis easy to't; and there I will attend
he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither
Some wine, boys!
Exit
Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,
As if we kept a fair here! Where are these porters,
For fear lest day should look their shames upon,
Where? at the senate-house?
By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
Madam, so I did.
Exit Messenger
SCENE II. The same.
What's he?
And about evening come yourself alone
My father's loss, like a most royal prince,
Why?
Ay, my good lord.
It is your grace's pleasure to commend;
Follow me not;
And, like a traitor to the name of God,
Yes, it doth shine that night.
O, my pardon!
Not I.
As iron to adamant, as earth to the centre,
With so eternal and so fix'd a soul.
Which his triumphant father's hand had won;
A ladder brought, which AARON is made to ascend
But death doth front thee with apparent spoil
altered! 'No man must know:' if this should be
For, I profess, you have it.
supplied when I have made it empty.
And so to sea. Their vessel shakes
And his physicians fear him mightily.
How now! canst stand?
Which else would post until it had return'd
My mother a Plantagenet,--
Ass, I doubt not.
No!
That, for the health and physic of our right,
An alarum. Re-enter TALBOT, BURGUNDY, and the rest
As faithfully as I deny the devil.
His face's own margent did quote such amazes
The fewest roses are cropp'd from the tree
Please you dismiss me either with 'ay' or 'no.'
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother;
All fears attending on so dire a project.
Laying PARIS in the tomb
Philip! sparrow: James,
places alike. Make not a city feast of it, to let
O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
So sweet a bedfellow? But, conscience, conscience!
Villains, for shame you could not beg for grace.
Our troops set forth to-morrow: stay with us;
Leaving the fight in height, flies after her:
My husband!
Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors:
I fear it is too choleric a meat.
SCENE IV. A room in FORD'S house.
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
And therewithal the best; or let her beauty
Is this the scourge of France?
That by thy comfortable beams I may
That which thou canst not undo.
God knows thou art a collop of my flesh;
Let me have time and counsel for my cause:
The mighty Warwick, and did fight for me?
From false to false, among false maids in love,
Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
As all comforts are; most good, most good indeed.
I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
And swim to yonder point?' Upon the word,
A fellow by the hand of nature mark'd,
No face is fair that is not full so black.
Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world!
Friends to this ground.
I pray you, leave me.
Enter a Gentleman
Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
summer-birds are men. Gentlemen, our dinner will not
Make blind itself with foolish tenderness.
Trumpets sound within
Beseech your highness, call the queen again.
By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
Many times, madam.
When with his knees he kiss'd the Cretan strand.
Sweet Clifford, hear me speak before I die.
No, wench; it eats and sleeps and hath such senses
Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?
Look on the tragic loading of this bed;
Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent:
This a consul? no.
The blood of English shall manure the ground,
For I upon this bank will rest my head.
Beginning nor supplyment.
For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
The Prince of Cumberland; which honour must
In time will find their fit rewards. That seal,
Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes
We do; and long to know each other worse.
Thou didst prevent me; I had peopled else
Draw it.
Ay, our way to be gone.
the word l'envoy for a salve?
To consummate this business happily.
Against the Volsces, for they had so vilely
Caesar shall forth: the things that threaten'd me
with Polixenes, king of Bohemia, and conspiring
Upon Saint Davy's day.
O worthy Goth, this is the incarnate devil
neat's tongue, you bull's pizzle, you stock-fish! O
Let it be so.
Here.
Brother, give me thy hand; and, gentle Warwick,
Now sadder, that you come so unprovided.
I, in probation of a sisterhood,
How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!
So many miles with a pretence? this place?
Thy love! out, tawny Tartar, out!
Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
A valiant Greek, AEneas,--take his hand,--
There was the weight that pull'd me down. O Cromwell,
Be emptied to redeem a traitor home?
If not, 'tis true this parting was well made.
fall into Charybdis, your mother: well, you are
He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon,
Cup us, till the world go round,
To see the strange impatience of the heavens:
Send thee by me, their tribune and their trust,
And I have better news in store for you
O, then how quickly should this arm of mine.
Nell, sir; but her name and three quarters, that's
And more I beg not.
Alack, where are you speak, an if you hear;
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live
The senators alone of this great world,
The seeming truth which cunning times put on
when they are known. Call your executioner, and off
The tongues of mocking wenches are as keen
And father of that chaste dishonour'd dame,
Unless you have a codpiece to stick pins on.
[To IMOGEN]  You are not well: remain here in the cave;
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
He hath been search'd among the dead and living,
my troth, there's one meaning well suited.
And not provoked by any suitor else;
I will make haste: but, till I come again,
Better do so than tarry and be hang'd.
Ah, thou shalt find us ready for thee still;
And one man in his time plays many parts,
But since you have made the days and nights as one,
I had your heart before, this follows it.
Or lose myself in dotage.
Quicken'd with youthful spleen and warlike rage,
And not these bastard Bretons; whom our fathers
Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out
That most ingrateful boy there by your side,
is there not besides the Douglas? have I not all
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!
I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts.
Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
See here, my friends and loving countrymen,
To house or housekeeping: then, at my farm
In any of our towns of garrison.
Nursing of my sons!
Here, most gracious liege.
The men that gave their country liberty.
He's but a country gentleman;
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH
Our will is Antony be took alive;
Foul subornation is predominant
I saw not better sport these seven years' day:
You have beguiled me with a counterfeit
He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou:
South-sea of discovery; I prithee, tell me who is it
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe.
Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble
If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some
Falls on ROMEO's body, and dies
But one imperious in another's throne?
I'll hunt with him; and let them be received,
The council shall know this.
Sennet. Enter KING LEAR, CORNWALL, ALBANY, GONERIL, REGAN, CORDELIA, and Attendants
Why, how now, Hamlet!
No, my good lord; it is more pleasing stuff.
You bring me to do, and then you flout me too.
And for these bitter tears, which now you see
To taunt at slackness. Canidius, we
[Aside]                 Or this, or perish.
My lord?
O, whither shall we fly from this reproach?
The lady speaks again in Welsh
Than tarry till they push us. Good Volumnius,
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and ROMEO
Here, man; I am at thy elbow.
I have no joy of this contract to-night:
Never did captive with a freer heart
They confess
Exeunt
His ransom there is none but I shall pay:
[To VIOLA]  There's no remedy, sir; he will fight
But from the inward motion to deliver
And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil
persuasion can with ease attempt you, I will go
With all the gracious utterance thou hast
Have utter'd truth: which if you seek to prove,
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
Enter EDMUND, with a letter
take heed, honest Gobbo, or, as aforesaid, 'honest
You i' the camlet, get up o' the rail;
But say this weed her love from Valentine,
But since the affairs of men rest still incertain,
I'll prove it on his body, if he dare,
But get you to Smithfield, and gather head,
Ye tell me what ye wish for both,--my ruin:
That play'st so subtly with a king's repose;
trust you not; 'Hic steterat Priami,' take heed
It was a bare petition of a state
Know thus far forth.
Almost no better than so many French;
Exeunt
Your lord and master did well to make his
Here, my good lord.
She never knew harm-doing: O, now, after
Intended or committed was this fault?
Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
Have buried them for prey!
Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
Eleven hours I spent to write it over,
Show'd like a stubble-land at harvest-home;
[Within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
The enemies of Caesar shall say this;
He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
And with presented nakedness out-face
They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
as the pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in
Servants bind him
bounty's foe;
Northumberland, I hold thee reverently.
Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth;
By good Saint Alban; who said, 'Simpcox, come,
Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts,
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,
Which, as he breathed defiance to my ears,
This was a goodly person,
Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup;
afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an
'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
Is marching hitherward in proud array,
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept
[Aside]  I know not what to say; my title's weak.--
Sing willow, willow, willow:
Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?
My lady's father.
I am as poor as you.
Break the neck of the wax, and every one give ear.
Dies ere the weary sun set in the west.
Hail, noble prince of France!
Well, my good lord.
And so swear I, my lord
Being unprepared,
I have almost slipp'd the hour.
Exeunt
Know man from man? dispute his own estate?
I would I could have spoken with the woman herself;
God save you, madam!
The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabour
but as there is no more plenty in it, it goes much
All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer,
To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast
If it please the gods to defend you by men, then men
SCENE I. A desert place.
No, Titus, no; the emperor needs her not,
Wreck'd as homeward he did come.
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,
Which have for long run by the hideous law,
O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
If you refuse it,--as, in love and zeal,
The dead with charity enclosed in clay:
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
His pardon for return.
Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
Thou diedst, a most rare boy, of melancholy.
So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
His plate, his goods, his money and his lands.
Long live King Henry! Plantagenet embrace him.
I can call spirits from the vasty deep.
discretion: there is no man hath a virtue that he
She stripp'd it from her arm; I see her yet;
Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea,
To cross the seas to England and be crown'd
Ay, you are honest men.
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
As this I dream'd of?
May have the world in empire!
He is a dreamer; let us leave him: pass.
To have no man come over me! why, shall I always
Made friends of them, joining their force 'gainst Caesar;
Hath heard your praises, and this night he means
Let me beseech your grace not to do so:
For certain words he spake against your grace
The trumpets sound: stand close, the queen is coming.
I put it to your care.
I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia, sir, to bring
And on to-morrow, bid them march away.
Lords, I am hot with haste in seeking you:
Till either death hath closed these eyes of mine
To meet me at the consecrated fount
higher, or return again into France?
France should have torn and rent my very heart,
Then I degraded you from being king,
Show me now, William, some declensions of your pronouns.
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
As I have read, sir; and the best of them too.
As well they may upbraid me with my crown,
Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off.
great presage of cruelty.
The actors are at hand and by their show
Their clothes are after such a pagan cut too,
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Strikes him
I am sorry for't:
And sauced our broths, as Juno had been sick
A course of learning and ingenious studies.
Is longer than his foreskirt. By this time
I humbly thank you.
To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?
Than this is all as true as it is strange:
Of what degree soever, with his brother.
That the precipitation might down stretch
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
Is this the balsam that the usuring senate
The which when any shall not gratify,
forbid her my house? She comes of errands, does
Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone:
Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
fed and gone. Will you come presently?
matter between party and party, if you chance to be
tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and
Follow'd my banishment, and this twenty years
Mates, maid! how mean you that? no mates for you,
Too late he died that might have kept that title,
So please you,--
After the slaughter of so many peers,
To have his head.
Were you well served, you would be taught your duty.
O Goneril!
'had'! how sad a passage 'tis!--whose skill was
her own nest.
comes himself.
I hope your own grace will keep you where you are,
On their departure most of all show evil:
And yonder, Caesar.
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
And women too, but innocent and pure;
That she, that even but now was your best object,
And now he's there, past thought of human reason.
there's one up.
wipe their lips.
no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
To a determined scope.
We cannot afford you so.
Handlest in thy discourse, O, that her hand,
All faults that may be named, nay, that hell knows,
Her favour turns the fashion of the days,
Farewell, my lord: securely I espy
Any thing, my lord,
Is not to-morrow, boy, the ides of March?
The sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick.
then go I toward Arragon.
Exeunt
And win them too: therefore let us devise
That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh
Wherefore she does, and swears she'll never stint,
Kate, you and I cannot be confined within the weak
High'st queen of state,
Why lifts she up her arms in sequence thus?
Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.
Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity
You have no reason; I do it freely.
Enter EROS
Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
shall I be appointed hours; as though, belike, I
This shows a sound affection.
they could not read, thou hast hanged them; when,
Of my young play-fellow.
That ever said I hearken'd for your death.
Go we to our tent:
Within the volume of which time I have seen
When Helen is defended, nor none so noble
How thus we met, and these things finish.
Caesar, and companion me with my mistress.
Peace be with you, sir.
And how quote you my folly?
So, lie thou there;
Enter another Citizen
Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
Enter two or three Lords
Knowest thou Gower?
which is in the manner of his nurse, or his dry
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
themselves. O thou great thunder-darter of Olympus,
AEmilius, do this message honourably:
And grapple thee unto a pagan shore;
For he hath laid strange courtesies and great
I made these wars for Egypt: and the queen,--
My waters; on the earth, and not on him.
Tell out my blood.
A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds,
Both disobedience and ingratitude
I love him not, nor fear him; there's my creed:
Sweet-heart, see, they bark at me.
that gown.
us to have mercy on him: at which time we will
My lord,--
Buried his father; by whose death he's stepp'd
O my dear lord,
Why, man, what is the matter?
With this same very iron to burn them out.
Enter SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD, with drum and soldiers
Even to the point of envy, if 'twere made
Nothing so full of heart. But peace, AEneas,
To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made
dead that was willing to be so: I shall do my
Anjou and Maine both given unto the French!
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
Attracts the same for aidance 'gainst the enemy;
My legions and my horse: six kings already
Fools are not mad folks.
Or thrive by other means.
And by her presence still renew his sorrows.
The remedy then born--discover to me
And so will I.
And many worthy and chaste dames even thus,
Into my grave.
beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial: on whose
Out on thee! Seeming! I will write against it:
Let us, like merchants, show our foulest wares,
Bestride my threshold. Why, thou Mars! I tell thee,
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Show duty, as mistaken all this while
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece!
In better phrase and matter than thou didst.
And by the bright track of his fiery car,
A goodly humour, is it not, my lords?
'Tween snow and fire, as treason and my love.
Sola! where? where?
Good signiors both, when shall we laugh? say, when?
He shall in strangeness stand no further off
thee, in what motion age will give me leave.
To leave this keen encounter of our wits,
Pray heaven he prove so, when you come to him!
king, my master, hath sent for me; to whose feeling
The mighty dukes
No bending knee will call thee Caesar now,
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
Good my lord, give me thy favour still.
Be merciful, great duke, to men of mould.
But bent all offices to honour her.
They hang their heads
To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony:
By laying defects of judgment to me; but
I'll trust to your conditions: be whores still;
And cannot live but to thy shame, unless
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
Re-enter ARIEL, loaden with glistering apparel,  and c
Exeunt
Any thing like?
Richly in both, if justice had her right.
I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
I shall, King Harry. And so fare thee well:
O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell,
She's such a one, that, were I well assured
What holier than, for royalty's repair,
I will not do't.
Intends to appear before the people, hoping
Kneel down and take my blessing, good my girl.
Exeunt
before the priest; and certainly a woman's thought
To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
Why thou against the church, our holy mother,
This vengeance on me had they executed.
The roof o' the chamber
To be your prisoner should import offending;
Who craves a parley with the Burgundy?
And look upon, as if the tragedy
Michael, good night: to-morrow with your earliest
And for a further grief,--God give you joy!--
Or vainly comes the admired princess hither.
net.
Your grace is welcome to our town and us.
Where is the queen?
That we have bled together. Coriolanus
But if my father had not scanted me
'Tis Agamemnon's wish, and great Achilles
According to our threefold order ta'en?
Show!
Corioli like a planet: now all's his:
Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?
Wishing his foot were equal with his eye,
Who died, and was Fidele. What think you?
Leaving thy trunk for crows to feed upon.
Show!
And which the spirit? who deciphers them?
Enter CLOTEN and Lords
'Tis true, to hurt his master, no man else.
Now, Antony, our hopes are answered:
This world to me is like a lasting storm,
No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
Pray God he be not angry.
That know love's grief by his complexion!
The carved-bone face on a flask.
If it were, I deny her virginity: I was taken with a maid.
The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,
Remains the censure of this hellish villain;
I doubt not then but innocence shall make
The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes,
Exeunt
That hath beside well in his person wrought
I think Hector was not so clean-timbered.
he is, and in the hottest day prognostication
The treasure in this field achieved and city,
He is but outside: these pencill'd figures are
And high top bald with dry antiquity,
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
As we do turn our backs
Breathes out of her: she hath not been entranced
Ay, when my father was in Rome she did.
With this kiss take my blessing: God protect thee!
For they succeed on you. To you, lord governor,
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
On Thursday we ourselves will march: our meeting
Sovereign and pious else, could speak thee out,
Nor tripped neither, you base football player.
My soul the father; and these two beget
You put me off with limber vows; but I,
These tidings would call forth their flowing tides.
They pitched in the ground confusedly,
yet to be what I would not shall not make me tame:
Disclaiming here the kindred of the king,
Go, Peto, to horse, to horse; for thou and I have
And use of service, none; contract, succession,
Thought nought too curious, are ready now
hid in the garden.
Ha!
By heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear
me;  but she's gone.
This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross;
Which they will make an obedient father.
Exit
The cause betwixt her and this great offender.
I bar it in the interest of my wife:
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
From stubborn Turks and Tartars, never train'd
Lucetta, as thou lovest me, let me have
His incivility confirms no less.
I ever contradicted your desire,
I have been feasting with mine enemy,
Le Roy! a Cornish name: art thou of Cornish crew?
to undo Hero and kill Leonato. Look you for any
True; who bears hard
Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the four.
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy: I were
And something from the palace; always thought
And yet, methinks, I could be well content
How blow? how blow? speak to be understood.
To JULIET
A very valiant Briton and a good,
hath a third at Mexico, a fourth for England, and
Nor when she purposes return. Beseech your highness,
Laissez, mon seigneur, laissez, laissez: ma foi, je
Of education all the grace,
of Ephesus attending.
I thought your marriage fit; else imputation,
Save to the God of heaven and to my king;
Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.
Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
Exeunt
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
With all his might
Nay, let's follow him.
I' the plain way of his merit.
Whereas the contrary bringeth bliss,
Through Athens' gates have we devised to steal.
But when I look on her perfections,
A fellow to it.
Your bed-chamber.
Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows:
drunkest last.
For that I woo, thou therefore hast no cause,
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
word too great for any mouth of this age's size. To
Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee,
When Helen is a maid again, and his.
Laughest thou, wretch? thy mirth shall turn to moan.
Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;
Witness against us to damnation!
Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown tomorrow:
In fair round belly with good capon lined,
Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.
Might stand peerless by this slaughter.
How so?
Exit
Thou tremblest at, answer that I shall ask;
I say 'your city,' to his wife and mother;
If guilty dread have left thee so much strength
That's true enough;
You know me, do you not?
None, Brutus, none.
For by his fall my honour must keep high.
Then meet me forthwith at the notary's;
That will with due decision make us know
Your loving uncle, twenty times his worth,
had any friend would be a man for my sake! But
Pardon me, if you please; if n ot, I, pleased
I will tell you.
That mend upon the world.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
To lay the blame upon her own despair,
To our fast-closed gates; for at this match,
Enter a third Gentleman
By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie.
What concern they?
I rather will subject me to the malice
That mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy's thoughts.
On my soul, I'll speak but truth.
They have e'en put my breath from me, the slaves.
We had the tune on't a month ago.
As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.
Well, well, I see the issue of these arms:
Do you go back dismay'd? 'tis a lost fear;
This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye,--
Ambitiously for rule and empery,
prove a shrunk panel and, like green timber, warp, warp.
Where you shall find me well accompanied
O, here they come.
That's false.
And Adam was a gardener.
Till Birnam forest come to Dunsinane.
To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.
Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
Ha! what has he sent? I am so much endeared to
For more amazement. If you can behold it,
To bind me, or undo me; one of them.
Become a churchman better than ambition:
which else an easy battery might lay flat, for
He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy:
And now prepare your throats. Lavinia, come,
Go, drag the villain hither by the hair;
Your right of birth, your empery, your own.
Say that upon the altar of her beauty
Enter KING HENRY VI and GLOUCESTER, with the Lieutenant, on the walls
Sound drums and trumpets, and the king will fly.
Please you, therefore, draw nigh, and take your places.
Enter VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA	they set them down on two low stools, and sew
Recover'd is the town of Orleans:
Becomes not Titus' brother: get thee gone:
This blended knight, half Trojan and half Greek.
Both they and we, perusing o'er these notes,
Even in the afternoon of her best days,
The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
How could he see his way to seek out you?
He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,
For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love
Study knows that which yet it doth not know:
Commend me to him: I will send his ransom;
Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge
And did entreat your highness to this course
To crop at once a too long wither'd flower.
Alarum and excursions. Enter KING EDWARD IV, bringing forth WARWICK wounded
Whom all France with their chief assembled strength
He is with Caesar.
Then let thy love be younger than thyself,
But when we in our viciousness grow hard--
And part your mingled colours once again;
the bear loose, are you not?
I would they could.
Courtesy itself must convert to disdain, if you come
do not like her.
Listen, but speak not to't.
diffidences, banishment of friends, dissipation
Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio.
My lord, I hear the Marquis Dorset's fled
None could be so abused in sight as he.
Where of the execution did cry out
Or unto death, to do my country good.
a barren rascal? an you smile not, he's gagged:'
Thou'ldst thank me but a little for my counsel:
Gods, put the strength o' the Leonati in me!
Of her o'er-eaten faith, are bound to Diomed.
I promise, I am afraid to hear you tell it.
There's a good grandam.
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight, and could not
I'll make all speed.
That has such people in't!
Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow.
I'll whisper with the general, and know his pleasure.
Marcius coming home!
Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
With every thing that pretty is,
Re-enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and seconds the  Britons: they rescue CYMBELINE, and exeunt. Then re-enter LUCIUS, and IACHIMO, with IMOGEN
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
With my vex'd spirits I cannot take a truce,
Holloa! what storm is this?
that I have not ended yet.
That John may stand, then Arthur needs must fall;
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
I must entreat of you some of that money.
About relieving of the sentinels:
Whose aim seems far too short to hit me here:
Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
Re-enter TITUS, with LAVINIA; he bearing a knife, and she a basin
Alas, poor chin! many a wart is richer.
Than such a murder is.
Still so cruel?
Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!
Drive him to Rome: 'tis time we twain
And on the sixth to turn thy hated back
Nor in a way so chaste, since my desires
Having God, her conscience, and these bars
Enforce attention like deep harmony:
Were not this glorious casket stored with ill:
As he could make me with this eye or ear
Puffing at all, winnows the light away;
With all thou canst find here. Now, the good gods
Hot lavender, mints, savoury, marjoram;
Why, I said nothing.
And bid her dry her weeping eyes therewith.
For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
Thou dost not speak so much.
warn us!--matter, the cleanliest shift is to kiss.
Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone.
Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer.
Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one!
That I did.
No, stir not, for your lives; let her pass by.
Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow,
And tell the pleasant prince this mock of his
From Troy.
Wouldst thou have practised on me for thy use,
What's your highness' pleasure?
They fight
Rosaline.' I will look again on the intellect of
And to say so no more.
Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
These lovers cry Oh! oh! they die!
And straight they shall be here: sit, and attend.
Well bandied both; a set of wit well play'd.
His royal self in judgment comes to hear
Remember it and let it make thee crest-fall'n,
'Con tutto il cuore, ben trovato,' may I say.
It shall make honour for you.
Made me a looker on here in Vienna,
off his drum in any hand.
SCENE II. A public place.
Enter JULIET
Ha, majesty! how high thy glory towers,
By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.
But ere I last received the sacrament
my mind! Shall we go prove what's to be done?
Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou!
To wrathful terms: this place is dangerous;
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
The cambric, which she made more sound
of what's past, present, or to come; insensible of
Ay, but, lady,
Say, then, my peace is made.
Deny your asking: take your choice of those
Retires
plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the
So madly hot that no discourse of reason,
By falsehood and corruption doth it shame.
thine own work? wilt thou whip thine own faults in
Arthur ta'en prisoner? divers dear friends slain?
ANTIPHOLUS
I'll wait upon you, and I long to hear it.
But float upon a wild and violent sea
And listen after Humphrey, how he proceeds:
Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation
[Within]  It seems thou want'st breaking: out upon
the statutes, he may stay him: marry, not without
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
Here's a good world the while! Why who's so gross,
In my rights,
Of the new'st and finest, finest wear-a?
At his head a grass-green turf,
Defend the justice of my cause with arms,
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
the writing nor the tune.
We have deserved it.
She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
this from Hero. They seem to pity the lady: it
We have sworn, my lord, already.
Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
The fit and apt construction of thy name,
In virtue than in vengeance: they being penitent,
The purposes I bear; which are, or cease,
By telling truth: tell truth and shame the devil.
Have to the port of Athens sent their ships,
Like hold on thee. Let go his arm.
And this it was, for other means was none:
For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
Where we do reign, we will alone uphold,
These three world-sharers, these competitors,
Make choice; and, see,
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
My husband hies him home; where, heaven aiding,
And three examples of the like have been
flower-de-luce?
Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands;
Yet never have you tasted our reward,
Exit
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
Become a dog that's mad: then is it sin
My gracious silence, hail!
That winter lion, who in rage forgets
Sear'd otherwise; nay, worse--if worse--extended
Together with the seal o' the senate, what
That this is from some mistress, some remembrance:
To achieve her! how?
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
Extremity out of act. What were thy friends?
He is gone, he is gone,
Enter MACBETH
A plum-tree, master.
Will you undo yourselves?
Wrench up thy power to the highest.
No, to my cabin.
To chide him from our eaves; for he persists
With such accommodation and besort
Screw'd to my memory? She hath been reading late
At mine, sir, and theirs that love music.
Speak, man.
Hath made me publisher of this pretence.
Lamenting some enforced chastity.
Do not call it sin in me,
Why, 'tis this naming of him does him harm.
Addition of his envy! Say, good Caesar,
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
Farewell, good king: when I am dead and gone,
Yet have I heard,--O, could I find it now!--
So slight, unworthy and ridiculous,
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,
But all the honour Salisbury hath won
The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath,
Seems bruited. Let me find him, fortune!
Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
dishonesty shall appear in me.
How fares your majesty?
King Lewis, I here protest, in sight of heaven,
I know my price, I am worth no worse a place:
Good morrow, both.
Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
out of my prains what is the name of the other
Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments;
So, I am satisfied. Give me a bowl of wine:
My truth-betrothed love and now my wife?
Will in that kingdom spend our following days:
In aid whereof we of the spiritualty
heaviness: of this contradiction you shall now be
Made use and fair advantage of his days;
To CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
But so it is, my haste doth call me hence,
And, to speak truth, thou deservest no less. This
Our coronation: lords, prepare yourselves.
None else of name; and of all other men
But more than these, in love I do deserve.
Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilion stand;
Condemn'd to die for treason, but no traitor;
Why, thy godhead laid apart,
Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?
Be't so. Proceed.
We are in God's hand, brother, not in theirs.
No, I'll none of it: I pray thee keep that for the
Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred,
And put your trial in the villain's mouth
[Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
Will serve our long inter'gatories. See,
An age of poverty; from which lingering penance
Would not 'scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,
Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood.
And he may fetch him.
And in the closing of some glorious day
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
Hath been beyond account.
Alack, why am I sent for to a king,
A Trojan hath been slain: since she could speak,
And they have nursed this woe, in feeding life;
One word, sir: our watch, sir, have indeed
found Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet?
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
Not worth my thinking. How now, poet!
Sister, it is not a little I have to say of what
To see my best friend ta'en before my face!
As much as me my dukedom.
I speak in understanding; you are; I know't:
What fool is this?
Weeps she still, say'st thou? Dost thou think in time
O, but she'll keep her word.
No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
With poisonous spite and envy.
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
That downward hath succeeded in his house
Exeunt Serving-men, Mayor,  and c
Higher than both in blood and life, stands up
Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove
arrant a villain and a Jacksauce, as ever his black
Who, though they are of monstrous shape, yet, note,
Exeunt QUINCE, SNUG, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Is it not lawful, an please your majesty, to tell
Draw; seem to defend yourself; now quit you well.
Nay, but understand me.
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
'Twas I; but 'tis not I	I do not shame
Like one that stands upon a promontory,
What was my first? it has an elder sister,
Pard to the hind, or stepdame to her son,'
This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;
And level of my brain, plot-proof; but she
Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace?
Enter GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, SOMERSET, and MONTAGUE
Indeed, la, 'tis a noble child.
Aside
in a retreat he outruns any lackey; marry, in coming
their father, making such pitiful dole over them
To second Proculeius?
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
And take my ministers along with me.
Absolute madness could so far have raved
Against us brats, with no less confidence
That I have done for you.
Pursue we him on knees; for I have dream'd
Upon the hatches: thence we looked toward England,
But there are other strict observances;
From whom I have received not only greetings,
But something may be done that we will not:
'Sblood, my lord, they are false: nay, I'll tickle
to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir
I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is
Take hold on me, for my particular grief
That pages blush'd at him and men of heart
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not:
Come, gentlemen, we sit too long on trifles,
'Tis just:
Well, I have done: but yet,--
Stay, stay, here comes the fool with Apemantus:
see thee so put down?
[Within]  Who's there that knocks so imperiously?
For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go;
Do it in hope of fair advantages:
So shall she leave her blessedness to one,
She, in my judgment, was as fair as you:
Have no delight to pass away the time,
stand bald before him: our general himself makes a
And thou a natural coward, without instinct.
Sweet Hero! She is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone.
Hear but my name, and tremble.
her, not bedded her; and sworn to make the 'not'
To call them woollen vassals, things created
And least proportion of humanity:
Enter the Mayor of Saint Alban's and his  brethren, bearing SIMPCOX, between two in a chair, SIMPCOX's Wife following
Henceforth be earls, the first that ever Scotland
My lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
Let pity not be believed!' There she shook
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
Out of mine own; his days and times are past
Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head: if you
Here is Sir William Lucy, who with me
neighbour Verges: well, God's a good man; an two men
True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way
know how I speed.
Well hast thou lesson'd us; this shall we do.
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
the image of it leaves him he must run mad.
cudgelled, they would melt me out of my fat drop by
Exit ANDROMACHE
Having full scarce six thousand in his troop.
and bitumed ready.
should purchase the day before for a little part,
This Antioch, then, Antiochus the Great
When half to half the world opposed, he being
Comfort, my liege; why looks your grace so pale?
O heavy deed!
Nay, then, give him another staff: this last was
At your best leisure, this his humble suit.
Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter?
Thou camest--
SCENE IV. The same. A tent.
Than what you look on now.
Upon this naughty earth? Go to, go to;
And Caesar's spirit, ranging for revenge,
And tamed the king, and made the dauphin stoop;
SCENE I. A churchyard.
matter to alter it. You have an unspeakable
thou darest tempt me further, draw thy sword.
Exeunt Murderers
To satisfy my lady.
Send to her, by the man that slew her brothers,
But I con him no thanks for't, in the nature he
Come thou no more for ransom, gentle herald:
I think there are, sir; I heard them talked of.
O villany, villany!
ACT V
You are a great deal abused in too bold a
For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
I have a health for you.
O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
Good Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a
not see her paddle with the palm of his hand? didst
Or gild again the noble troops that waited
And firm for Doctor Caius, hath appointed
That, by the help of these--with Him above
Is it true too, think you?
Fie on her! see, how beastly she doth court him!
Hath nodded him to her. He hath given his empire
Where Charles the Great, having subdued the Saxons,
Silence that dreadful bell: it frights the isle
So you grant pasture for me.
For I must ever doubt, though ne'er so sure--
vinegar and pepper in't.
the truth of his words; but they do no more adhere
And generally to the crown and seat of France
Or they so suffering: then on good ground we fear,
Thou shalt inquire him out among the Goths:
With the mere rankness of their joy.
rare carpenter? Come, in what key shall a man take
Haste still pays haste, and leisure answers leisure;
'I shall beseech you'--that is question now;
Sirs, stop their mouths, let them not speak to me;
Subtle as Sphinx; as sweet and musical
This sword but shown to Caesar, with this tidings,
Tell me wherein have I offended most?
For she is sweeter than perfume itself
Old as I am, to queen it: but, I pray you,
For no less spoil than glory,--
Twice-sod simplicity, his coctus!
Exeunt
Ay, sir; where lies that? if 'twere a kibe,
Making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee
Part shame, part spirit renew'd; that some,
My liefest liege to be mine enemy:
What towns of any moment but we have?
Had I this cheek
SCENE VI. Near the camp of Cominius.
Adieu, good Sir Hugh.
Whiles others fish with craft for great opinion,
In the last conflict, and made plenteous wounds!
Here she lies, sir.
The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing;
Now will I in, to take some privy order,
Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
sooner persuade Harry of England than a general
To him that made him proud, the pope.
Exeunt FERDINAND and MIRANDA severally
I have thought upon it, it shall be so. Away, burn
Of my defeatures. My decayed fair
If for my love, as there is no such cause,
O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
Which my despair proclaims; let that be left
Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.
Swear then by something that thou hast not wrong'd.
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA with their train
The duke and senators of Venice greet you.
The world will say, he is not Talbot's blood,
My traffic is sheets; when the kite builds, look to
And will not palter? and what other oath
Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius,
man in the city; and though I be but a poor man, I
If nothing lets to make us happy both
ACT I
Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.
So they are;
I will not be afraid of death and bane,
out of fear.
A perilous gash, a very limb lopp'd off:
As you do love your lady Silvia:
That he is march'd to Bourdeaux with his power,
Both are alike; and both alike we like.
Excludes all pity from our threatening looks.
And go along with him!
report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
Re-enter Bawd
A barren detested vale, you see it is;
You are moved, prince; let us depart, I pray you,
So the gods preserve thee!
I have been dear to him, lad, some two thousand
To tell my story.
Abound, as thick as thought could make 'em, and
Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart,
Get you home
Help, ho! murder! help!
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
Some food we had and some fresh water that
Of place 'tween high and low. Our foe was princely
And when was he wont to wash his face?
If that thy prosperous and artificial feat
To FABIAN
words him, I doubt not, a great deal from the matter.
Peace! I will stop your mouth.
Exeunt
Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,
Vincetino's son brought up in Florence
That in your chambers gave you chastisement?
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
Have cost a mass of public treasury.
And fiends will snatch at it. Cold, cold, my girl!
Englishman. Scurvy jack-dog priest! by gar, me
Well then, I pray, your price o' the consulship?
You do awake your faith. Then all stand still;
I would these dewy tears were from the ground.
Now Margaret's curse is fallen upon my head;
And they have troops of soldiers at their beck?
Your heart has mind to.
But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home,
Stamped in gold, but that's insculp'd upon;
Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
Hisperia, the princess' gentlewoman,
the courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.
SCENE III. Tarsus. A room in CLEON's house.
As I have ever found thee honest-true,
Th' other's not come to't; you shall tell me another
This earth shall have a feeling and these stones
I know not.
My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel;
He and Aufidius can no more atone
Why, so I did; but look'd for no reply.
Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls,
Name them, my lord, let's know them.
And we are women's men.
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
Making a man a god. 'Tis known, I ever
No, to White-Friars; there attend my coining.
No, I am a Welshman.
You chose her; then I'ld shriek, that even your ears
pret; car ce soldat ici est dispose tout a cette
Enter BIRON
Dispute not with her; she is lunatic.
Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling
Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come hither, Tyrrel
How near the tidings of our comfort is.
You are as well provided of both as any prince in the world.
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
To be your servant.
Which, like the meteors of a troubled heaven,
It is to be all made of fantasy,
Or, wing'd with fervor of her love, she's flown
Guns heard
An all men were o' my mind,--
See to my house, left in the fearful guard
of your marriage as to show a child his new coat
Than the constraint of hospitable zeal
Thou goest to Coventry, there to behold
'Gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate,
Who seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd,
And won thy love, doing thee injuries;
Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good
Ay me, I see the downfall of our house!
will tell you every thing, right as it fell out.
Exit SILVIUS
A little I can read.
There is a plot against my life, my crown;
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
Drums afar off
Now, by the death of Him that died for all,
And pull'd the law upon you.
Now must I hide his body in some hole,
Unreconciliable, should divide
As recompense of our dear services
RICHARD
Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter?
off, I would prick your guts a little, in good
The favours of these men: were they not mine?
Thy balm wash'd off wherewith thou wast anointed:
we'll unkennel the fox. Let me stop this way first.
A very mean meaning.
I would I had; so I had broke thy pate,
Arise forth from the couch of lasting night,
Of these fair edifices 'fore my wars
You'll mar all:
Twenty to one then he is shipp'd already,
Exeunt
If you please,
I was enforced to send it after him;
lamb when it baes will never answer a calf when he bleats.
Exit Chamberlain, attended. All rise, and tables removed
Ay, boy, it's for love.
Whispers the o'er-fraught heart and bids it break.
But men are men; the best sometimes forget:
Can tell so much: shall Banquo's issue ever
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Ajax offers to beat him
And from the pride of Gallia rescued thee.
By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
up watch, or play with my--some rich jewel. Toby
Do their due functions. Have you ta'en of it?
Which they distil now in the curbed time,
Hard fate! he might have died in war.
Lovers, make moan:
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO
Exeunt
But I can give the loser leave to chide.
His means most short, his creditors most strait:
that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition
gap in your own honour, and shake in pieces the
Her inkle, silk, twin with the rubied cherry:
Good masters, take it not unkindly, pray,
I do relent: what would thou more of man?
indeed, cannot abide 'em; they are very ill-favored
tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
Let me excuse me, and believe me so,
Thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords
Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there,
Lend me your horn to make one, and I will whip about
Exit Doctor
For you there's rosemary and rue; these keep
'Tis oft with difference--yet do they all confirm
You elements that clip us round about,
Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle:
and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs
We be affied and such assurance ta'en
prince. But, Hal, I prithee, trouble me no more
Stabs herself
That eye my daughter lent her: 'tis most true.
That moved pale Cassius to conspire; and what
And here advance it in the market-place,
Let shame come when it will, I do not call it:
Just, if he send me no husband; for the which
If he be absent, bring his brother to me;
Nor, princes, is it matter new to us
Exit
You will bestow her on Orlando here?
Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
With some fine colour that may please the eye
My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds,
Where others tell steps with me.
This jest is dry to me. Fair gentle sweet,
His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself,
There's livers out of Britain.
God, God forgive us all! Look after her;
I hope they will not come upon us now.
Gentlemen and soldiers, pardon me; I will not combat
his day. What need I be so forward with him that
Well, I will marry one day, but to try.
my daughter tell you how.
Our duty to your honour.
Have you any levers to lift me up again, being down?
That from Tarentum and Brundusium
I am debating of my present store,
But when they heard he was thine enemy,
Will you, not having my consent,
his demands to the point; only refer yourself to
Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch:
If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight
Though I am mad, I will not bite him: call.
Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity
That shall be up at heaven and enter there
Welcome, brave duke! thy friendship makes us fresh.
But when I came to man's estate,
And I will see thee.
And no way from yourselves. What do you think,
Hark, how the villain would close now, after his
He served with glory and admired success,
Not a friend, not a friend greet
It is a rupture that you may easily heal: and the
From a resolved and honourable war,
And let it be confiscate all, so soon
prithee, be gone.
Not a whit,
So to be false with her.
And I, tough senior, as an appertinent title to your
Come your ways, sir; come.
No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you
Of knaves once more; my cook and I'll provide.
Much less shall she that hath Love's wings to fly,
inclination, after his undressed, unpolished,
If 'twere no other--
any, speak; for him have I offended. Who is here so
And think my patience, more than thy desert,
back and finds her lover?
Watch'd for your voices; for Your voices bear
Lady Constance, peace!
Get you a place.
for the light in thy face, the son of utter
SCENE II. A room in the Garter Inn.
With hey, ho,  and c.
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
Inclining to them both: were my wife's liver
Exit DIOMEDES
Now, fellow,
So up and down the poor ship drives:
Enter IACHIMO
Both warbling of one song, both in one key,
Repair there to me.
They are dissolved: hang 'em!
And will awake him from his melancholy.
To tie thee to my strong correction.
The shame which here it suffers.
Then be your eyes the witness of this ill:
Whither bound?
I would I were senseless, sir, that I might not feel
Thy spacious and dilated parts: here's Nestor;
bare friendship, without security. Here's three
Till I again see mine.
And he will bless that cross with other beating:
Enter SLENDER
Come, take away. Lavinia, go with me:
Most certain. Let our catch be, 'Thou knave.'
And each of them had twenty times their power,
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me!
Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be.
See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
Great Earl of Washford, Waterford and Valence;
Enchased with all the honours of the world?
And those but mean.
Aside to GLOUCESTER
ram-tender, to offer to have his daughter come into
gar, it is a shallenge: I will cut his troat in dee
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus
him accordingly, as you value your trust--
You pay him then. That's a perilous shot out of an
strumpet in my bed; the testimonies whereof lie
Than such an one to reign.
Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
For speculation turns not to itself,
Kisses the base ground with obedient breast?
converted I know not, but methinks you look with
the adoption of abominable terms, and by him that
Under the canopy.
more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child
Yes, you are.
I am content: provide me soldiers, lords,
Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke
And cried 'all hail!' when as he meant all harm.
I thank you, honest gentlemen; good night.
Here's gold. Go, suck the subtle blood o' the grape,
What would you have me do?
O sweet Sir John!
My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire,
And thou no more are prince than she is queen.
I'll not have it alter'd.
And so I am awake. Poor wretches that depend
And loosed his love-shaft smartly from his bow,
Commend me to my kind lord: O, farewell!
To-morrow, Caesar,
The king is a good king: but it must be as it may;
Is it so, sir?
I take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
England ne'er had a king until his time.
Ratcliff, thyself, or Catesby; where is he?
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
Therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
And what will you do now? How will you live?
My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken,
Stabbing him
time has yet to come that she was ever respected
Let us not live in France; let us quit all
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
This Edward, whom our manners term the prince.
Upon a dwarfish thief.
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
daughters, and leave his horns without a case.
And yet the end of all is bought thus dear,
For so they seem: they've left their barge and landed;
And at the time of my departure thence
And so should you.
Or bitterly to speak in your reproof.
near nobody.
Enter LEONATO, ANTONIO, BENEDICK, BEATRICE, MARGARET, URSULA, FRIAR FRANCIS, and HERO
And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
the orchard and saw me court Margaret in Hero's
Why, then the maid is mine from all the world,
Till when, go seek thy fortune.
SIR NATHANIEL retires
Enter BENVOLIO
So I shall mend mine own, by the lack of thine.
Every one lets forth his sprite,
By his persuasion are again fall'n off,
The deep-revolving witty Buckingham
PAULINA draws a curtain, and discovers HERMIONE standing like a statue
Ne'er brake into extremity of rage.
That so sweetly were forsworn;
I will do a greater thing than that, upon your
And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
Put on the gown, stand naked and entreat them,
And Marian's nose looks red and raw,
Enter FORD with PISTOL, and PAGE with NYM
Exit
Because I would not see thy cruel nails
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, in rotten armour, marvellous ill-favoured
Will easily be granted. You, my lord,
Did we, my lord?
extracting it clutch'd? What reply, ha? What
To show myself a glass.
To kill us here in Hampton: to the which
Go thou before, be our ambassador:
Nor wear the diadem upon his head,
garden where leeks did grow, wearing leeks in their
Exit
Midnight, assist our moan;
Must give us pause: there's the respect
I prophesy the fearful'st time to thee
A man of their infirmity.
rightly but one who shall rightly love. But what
Or voluntary dotage of some mistress,
Exit
Nay, now dispatch; 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward,
I will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me
saw.
That I should questionless be fortunate!
Of Edmund Mortimer, who married Philippe,
That this great king may kindly say,
Assist me, then, sweet Warwick, and I will;
No, I can better play the orator.
In restless ecstasy. Duncan is in his grave;
Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you,
Well, sir.
My title's good, and better far than his.
By him that justly may
My name is Caius Marcius, who hath done
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
but the word 'noddy' for my pains.
As the main point of this our after-meeting,
a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog; therefore I
It is a thing I made, which hath the king
To draw upon an exile! O brave sir!
[Aside]  As much as an apple doth an oyster,
There without ransom to lie forfeited;
Wilt thou believe me, Hal? three or four bonds of
Ever in France shall be kept festival:
[Aside]  I hear, yet say not much, but think the more.
That, being captain of the watch to-night,
To tread a measure with her on this grass.
I never practised it.
Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
her life: I shall give thee opportunity at
My words express my purpose.
top and instantly break with you of it.
That she is busy and she cannot come.
Ay, madam, you may say what sights you see;
The flat unraised spirits that have dared
Is the king stirring, worthy thane?
If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
To tyrannous hate! Swell, bosom, with thy fraught,
A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all!
I am marble-constant; now the fleeting moon
Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
My downright violence and storm of fortunes
Yes, truly; for, look you, the sins of the father
Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
Each object with a joy: the counterchange
Plants with goodly burthen bowing;
say, we will do no harm with our swords, and that
A post from Wales loaden with heavy news;
Take heed, the quarrel's most ominous to us: if the
I'll tell you in a little. The great duke
Or break it all to pieces: or there we'll sit,
imposition: oft got without merit, and lost without
O good sir!
Rich men sin, and I eat root.
Resolve me, with all modest haste, which way
Withhold thy speed, dreadful occasion!
Consuming it with speaking!
notwithstanding that, I know Anne's mind,--that's
Exit Attendant
Becoming well thy fact: what canst thou say
All this is true.
It were not good; for therein should we read
better fool.
Open the gates; 'tis Gloucester that calls.
Why, this is the ring I gave to Julia.
Or let the church, our mother, breathe her curse,
O'er-picturing that Venus where we see
Who lent it you?
must needs confess,--
That thou wilt war with God by murdering me?
If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
Keep your hundred pounds to yourself: he shall
If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
Of this remove.
Work you then.
conquering might:
I have not, my lord, deserved it.
With them a bastard of the king's deceased,
Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear:
Exeunt
Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings:
So to him we leave it.
Yes, Cassius; and, from henceforth,
very day receives letters of strange tenor;
Against the Moor: for, I do know, the state,
And gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain?
therefore I can be quiet.
Commend me to the princes in our camp;
Good morr ow, lords:
run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
This is against our pleasure.
Of his return: he answer'd, 'Do not so;
But immortality attends the former.
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
I do owe them still
So sacred as it is, I have done sin:
husband have stables enough, you'll see he shall
To the king I'll say't; and make my vouch as strong
hole in hell were hot enough for him? This is the
'Tis ready, sir, here in the porch.
How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser,
The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch,
To reinforcement, or we perish all.
He hath deserved worthily of his country: and his
I will not fail your ladyship. Good morrow, gentle lady.
heritage: and I think I shall never have the
Ay, and briefly.
That Cleon's wife, with envy rare,
Not as a fee: grant me two things, I pray you,
Most piteous to be wild, I have dispatch'd in post
Rather than I would be so vile esteem'd.
And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed:
[Within]  Who calls there?
I wrote the letter that thy father found
Patient yourself, madam, and pardon me.
He would have spoke to us.
Amen.
And yet no day without a deed to crown it.
I love this youth; and I have heard you say,
O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
Call forth my household servants: let's to-night
Reads
Enter DULL with a letter, and COSTARD
Perchance, Iago, I will ne'er go home.
Your friends are up, and buckle on their armour.
I have begun to plant thee, and will labour
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
But 'gainst your privacy
No richer than his honour: how he glisters
Has forgot Britain.
Though Fortune, visible an enemy,
May move your hearts to pity if you mark him.
They were traitors: honourable men!
Ay, is't, I warrant him: do but read.
Till the disaster that, one mortal night,
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
How durst thy tongue move anger to our face?
In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
It falls right.
This throne, this Fortune, and this hill, methinks,
To be my fellow-servant to your ladyship.
From Lisbon, Barbary and India?
He did love her, sir, as a gentleman loves a woman.
God save you, noble captain.
The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,
My lord, not I.
shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat.
say 'Welcome!'
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
This is his lordship's man.
Twenty crowns.
Rising and cawing at the gun's report,
That will take pains to blow a horn before her?
For I dare so far free him--made him fear'd,
Ta'en off by poison.
As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him:
but for the stuffing,--well, we are all mortal.
The soul and body rive not more in parting
And labour shall refresh itself with hope,
were a thought browner; and your gown's a most rare
Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour.
In whom the tempers and the minds of all
to be a friar, from the time of his remembrance to
Mass, and my elbow itched; I thought there would a
Some welcome for the mistress of the house.
ANTIPHOLUS
the reason why they are not so punished and cured
And whiles the honourable captain there
Yet our old love made a particular force,
Valiant, wise, remorseful, well accomplish'd:
My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
Lord John of Lancaster, go you with him.
That England was defamed by tyranny.
I shall never begin if I hold my peace.
Is in thyself rebellion to thyself;
that's the end.
Even what it please my lord, that shall become him.
And let my spleenful sons this trull deflow'r.
Good sir, whose powers are these?
Suffolk's imperial tongue is stern and rough,
Out on thee, villain! wherefore dost thou mad me?
And make him with fair AEgle break his faith,
Let me still take away the harms I fear,
But now to task the tasker: good Boyet,
But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
And I have play'd the sheep in losing him.
Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
The venom'd vengeance ride upon our swords,
east side of the grove?
me merry. I was as virtuously given as a gentleman
Than bring a burthen of dishonour home
My food, my fortune and my sweet hope's aim,
All corners of the world: kings, queens and states,
'Fair' I give you back again; and 'welcome' I have
Let's do so. But he sleeps.
[Aside]  I feel remorse in myself with his words;
Of one or both of us the time is come.
When I perceive your grace, like power divine,
To REGAN and GONERIL
Why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts,
And died so?
Successful in the battles that he fights,
I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
Then sigh not so,  and c.
To what they were before. My pretty cousin,
Than she to scant her duty.
That on the touching of her lips I may
Which is the ladder to all high designs,
Was nursed with Cleon; who at fourteen years
He hath promised you more than that, or there be liars.
You may not so extenuate his offence
Mean you to enjoy him?
From me, the lord on't.
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
Cornets. Enter KING HENRY VIII, leaning on  CARDINAL WOLSEY's shoulder, the Nobles, and LOVELL;  CARDINAL WOLSEY places himself under KING HENRY VIII's feet on his right side
No, my lord;
Who would not have his wife so?
To swear against you? such things have been done.
Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it.
Exit
Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him!
escapes not
For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
I know not, Menas,
That owe yourselves, your lives and services
Each day still better other's happiness;
The incense of a vow, a holy vow,
Which God's dew quench! Therefore I say again,
O, he's the very soul of bounty!
This is all, indeed, la! but I'll ne'er put my
The duke is entering: therefore, hence, away!
That has this morning left thee, would have still
He was disposed to mirth; but on the sudden
For princes to come view fair Portia:
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
That may succeed as his inheritor;
The sides o' the world may danger: much is breeding,
And from your love I have a warranty
Playing in the wanton air:
That twenty such rude boys might tend upon
We are no tell-tales, madam; fear you not.
The tackle of my heart is crack'd and burn'd,
And shall our quick blood, spirited with wine,
How things go from him, nor resumes no care
Go to the pulpit, Brutus.
Lo, by my truth, the instrument is cold
From off the head of this Athenian swain;
Your ships already are in readiness.
Away, I say; thou shalt know more hereafter:
offendress against nature. Virginity breeds mites,
Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
Coriolanus, that they are in a ripe aptness to take
And from this fellow? if we live thus tamely,
That of his bounties taste! The five best senses
My brother's love, the devil, and my rage.
Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
Let the devil and his dam haunt you! What did you
Yours, yours.
From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause;
The primogenitive and due of birth,
in friendship, and I will one way or other make you amends.
Do not embrace me till each circumstance
monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful,
To such a sudden flood of mutiny.
Augmenting it with tears.
Do you dare our anger?
Affairs of Antony; there did persuade
And in my conduct shall your ladies come;
Ay, just; a verse in Horace; right, you have it.
But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky.
That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honour
Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armour.
To be the dowry of a second head,
An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too, I'll
Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy too
And how achieved you these endowments, which
That offer service to your lordship.
loves me. She did commend my yellow stockings of
Enter DERCETAS and Guard
How now, my noble lord? what, all afoot?
When a man's servant shall play the cur with him,
To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom
Sooner than quittance of desert and merit
they're half fish, half flesh: a plague on them,
His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
He was but as the cuckoo is in June,
Disguise us at my lodging and return,
Have you the tongues?
married to-morrow:
Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
I beseech you, remember--
Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized:
That with his peremptory 'shall,' being but
I pray you, tell me what you meant by that.
The action of my life is like it, which
Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me,
Almost a mile: but he does usually,
in's forehead.
But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.
'Tis with cares.
[Aside to DOCTOR CAIUS]  Pray you let us not be
And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take
fellow somewhat near the door, he should be a
The congregated college have concluded
Yet such extenuation let me beg,
Cardinal of York, are join'd with me their servant
May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to
And never seek for aid out of himself. Yet see,
Ay, if yourself's remembrance wrong yourself.
No; though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
Both from thy table, Henry, and thy bed,
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
Of my more fierce endeavour: I have seen drunkards
Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon;
I like it better than a dangerous honour.
Leaps into the grave
Cannot your Grace win her to fancy him?
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Very easily possible: he wears his faith but as
Exeunt Executioners
With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore:
With wax I brought away, whose soft impression
That stir the king against the duke my brother.
But crave! Then I'll turn craver too, and so I
You shall not seal to such a bond for me:
Exeunt
Set armed discord 'twixt these perjured kings!
So, good night, with lullaby.
At a crack'd drachm! Cushions, leaden spoons,
to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on;
Enter the PRINCESS, and her train, a Forester, BOYET, ROSALINE, MARIA, and KATHARINE
Stood Dido with a willow in her hand
I shall do so;
Thou keep'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.
Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king?
And won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes,
And at the door too, like a post with packets.
No longer Celia, but Aliena.
Will you be married, motley?
labelled to my will: as, item, two lips,
Forsake the court: to do't, or no, is certain
Your franchises, whereon you stood, confined
some stair-work, some trunk-work, some
Not ours, or not allow'd; what worst, as oft,
some laudable attempt either of valour or policy.
Guiderius had
But gather we our forces out of hand
One of this kind is Cassio:
Glancing an eye of pity on his losses,
That the pursuers took him. At my tent
Christ's mother helps me, else I were too weak.
Why sweat they under burthens? let their beds
SCENE VI. Street near the city gate.
Doth my lord call?
I hear none, madam.
Madam, not so; I do beseech you, stay.
as it were, mean mischief and break a foul gap into
And this for me, struck home to show my strength.
By my troth, sir, no; though it please you to be
wild-fowl than your lion living; and we ought to
You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
Nominativo, hig, hag, hog; pray you, mark:
day does night; it's spritely, waking, audible, and
Go, and be ruled: although I know thou hadst rather
Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail!
Then come, o' God's name; I fear no woman.
Exit
That with your strange encounter much amazed me,
Where we, in all her trim, freshly beheld
Hang thyself!
Pray you, tell him
I sit at ten pounds a week.
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell
Our grace can make him so.
What dost thou mean?
That plats the manes of horses in the night,
And these grey locks, the pursuivants of death,
Where, where? Art thou come? why, my cheese, my
Is this exaction?
With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
Why, then my cousin Margaret and Ursula
Three times to-day my foot-cloth horse did stumble,
He spieth FALSTAFF on the ground
As to set dogs on sheep--will be his fire
Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar
Welcome, how agreed?
winds and rocks. The man is, notwithstanding,
Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.
All the world's a stage,
Call, good Mercutio.
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
patience; and, in roaring for a chamber-pot,
In that I'll war with you.
The king reposeth all his confidence in thee.
Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth;
My sovereign mistress clouded so, without
Enter DEMETRIUS, HELENA, following him
Lo, yonder, and Titinius mourning it.
Bidding the law make court'sy to their will:
SCENE II. Imogen's bedchamber in Cymbeline's palace:
New matter still?
people dislike it.
Fresher than e'er it was; and held for certain
Shall have more vices than it had before,
I'll have no father, if you be not he:
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
Who, if he break, thou mayst with better face
King Richard Coeur-de-lion was thy father:
Can you advise me?
Come, let us to our holy task again.
Rudesby, be gone!
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear
But shall she marry him?
His riddle told not, lost his life:
Why, tis no matter, man; if they did hear,
That ever graced me in thy company?
Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then.
Give them diseases, leaving with thee their lust.
I think no usurer but has a fool to his servant: my
Who's there, I trow! Come near the house, I pray you.
almost most absolute Alexas, where's the soothsayer
are to be loved. No, my good lord; banish Peto,
As happy prologues to the swelling act
Have I done since I went.
To have my praise for this, perform a part
Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia,
Why, then, I think Cassio's an honest man.
That done, our day of marriage shall be yours;
And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,
as well as another man, a plague on my bringing up!
There's many have committed it.
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land,
Ay, and a subtle; as he most learnedly delivered.
Tent in my cheeks, and schoolboys' tears take up
names as they pass by; but mark Troilus above the rest.
You are undone, captain, all but your scarf; that
with you, drink with you, nor pray with you. What
Exeunt
And let the Christian go.
I know not, sweet: I found it in my chamber.
Enter ARTHUR
but by a metaphor.
Canst thou believe thy living is a life,
That she did give me, whose posy was
What dogs are these! Where is the rascal cook?
Enter Pandar, Bawd, and BOULT
Your sauciness will jest upon my love
Exit
I do not misdoubt my wife; but I would be loath to
Come, bring forth the prisoners.
PROLOGUE
His marches are expedient to this town,
A thing inspired; and, not consulting, broke
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust,
That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker:
If not, I'll die your maid: to be your fellow
home: he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
Come.
Where, ere we do repose us, we will write
Think, my lord!
To NORTHUMBERLAND
And with thy bloody and invisible hand
treasonable abuses!
Ay, and it doth confirm
Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have
But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name
Enter TITUS ANDRONICUS, with Hunters,  and c., MARCUS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
Should be without regard: what's done is done.
Was,--were he evil used, he would outgo
Patience once more, whiles our compact is urged:
I am to-day i' the vein of chivalry:
Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar,
O monstrous traitor! I arrest thee, York,
Who is the first that doth prefer himself?
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
master's whistle. Blow, till thou burst thy wind,
dog's obeyed in office.
I'll not put
Sings
But thou dost swear only to be forsworn;
Still, still, far wide!
I am a drunkard! Had I as many mouths as Hydra,
O thou that dost inhabit in my breast,
Laud we the gods;
is to accuse your mothers; which is most infallible
Wherefore you are not paid.
Exeunt
And crows are fatted with the murrion flock;
there are ways to recover the general again: you
Nay, yet there's more in this:
When first I did embrace him: yet his nature
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
I will cut thy throat, one time or other, in fair
Makes you think so.
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Such as he hath observed in noble ladies
That am a poor and humble subject to you?
Form'd by the eye and therefore, like the eye,
Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in
Hath he set bounds betwixt their love and me?
Enwheel thee round!
Aside, aside; here comes Lord Timon.
I am too childish-foolish for this world.
He's a lamb indeed, that baes like a bear.
Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,
O, who hath any cause to mourn but I?
When you durst do it, then you were a man;
must comfort you, men must feed you, men must stir
Though all that I can do is nothing worth,
I learned it in England, where, indeed, they are
Jesus preserve your royal majesty!
performance is ever the duller for his act; and,
Drop in my neck: as it determines, so
taking a beggar without less quality. But how comes
Being wanted, he may be more wonder'd at,
Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
I would you had been by the ship side, to have
Under whose warrant I impeach thy wrong
As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
From Lionel Duke of Clarence, the third son
It shows but little love or judgment in him:
I swear 'tis better to be much abused
It is to jet upon a prince's right?
I fear these stubborn lines lack power to move:
He flouted us downright.
Accept of him, or else you do me wrong:
Peace be with you!
A good old man, sir; he will be talking: as they
With scarfs and fans and double change of bravery,
answer before him. If it be honest you have spoke,
Exit LUCIUS
Exit CORNWALL, led by REGAN
After long absence, such is yours: most welcome!
Like man new made.
Religiously provokes. Be pleased then
The earldom of Hereford, and the moveables
Thou know'st, was banish'd: for one thing she did
That, in the working of your own affections,
I can heat it, boy.
That with his very heart despiseth me?
Let me go and try:
give thee leave to die: but if thou diest before I
redeem you from your gyves; if not, you shall have
Shall, by the power we hold, be our good deed,
I'll play the orator as well as Nestor,
Refuse it not; it hath no tongue to vex you;
Master, knock the door hard.
Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you;
Your message done, hie home unto my chamber,
Exit TAMORA
If aught possess thee from me, it is dross,
One of these days; and then you'ld wanton with us,
To thy fair way!
My lord is not my lord; nor should I know him,
Than dogs that are as often beat for barking
She came from Libya.
But never hope to know why I should marry her.
And to be boy eternal.
To be revenged on Rome and Saturnine.
like a kern of Ireland, your French hose off, and in
And ask'd thee mercy for't.
Is it not meant damnable in us, to be trumpeters of
An actor too, perhaps, if I see cause.
you?
To bear his image and renew his glories!
Return us thanks.
plain-song of it.
It's one o'clock, boy, is't not?
No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be locked within the
I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for the
Not yet thou knowest me, and, seeing me, dost not
Stand thee close, then, under this pent-house, for
Sith that the justice of your title to him
Being so far provoked as I was in France, I would
As were our England in reversion his,
the wonder of it, came missives from the king, who
This is thy sheath;
Are strewings fitt'st for graves. Upon their faces.
To excel the golden age.
If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
As that proud dame, the lord protector's wife.
Therefore give out you are of Epidamnum,
Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
Keep thy word: fare thee well.
No, by the rood, not so:
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
For, by my father's reverend tomb, I vow
my foes, sir I profit in the knowledge of myself,
I am thy grandam, Richard; call me so.
For Orpheus' lute was strung with poets' sinews,
the Florentine?
When he shall hear she died upon his words,
Why, sir, say if you had,
Tell me thou art my son Antipholus.
'His eyes do show his days are almost done.'
And being rich, my virtue then shall be
And every object that might make me fear
Marry, heaven forbid!
All dead.
I bring a trumpet to awake his ear,
And go we to attire you for our journey.
Worse and worse, mistress; she has here spoken holy
sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brown
Then after fight who shall be king of it?
Presenting a letter
Are mere usurpers, tyrants and what's worse,
My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
Where is Demetrius? O, how fit a word
Before the duke, and to the head of Angelo
That I profess myself in banqueting
Then Troilus should have too much: if she praised
What, did my father's godson seek your life?
Even now we heard the news: ah, could'st thou fly!
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
Caesar, I shall.
And, as you answer, I do know the scope
Our noble general, do not do so.
But that, till further trial in those charges
I shall be saved by my husband; he hath made me a
O heaven! How got she out? O treason of the blood!
This dastard, at the battle of Patay,
Will I first work: he's for his master,
During his power, go sleep.
Welcome, good Clarence; this is brotherlike.
Prithee, do not turn me about; my stomach is not constant.
The holding every man shall bear as loud
For our proud empress, mighty Tamora:
No care to your best courses. Go, I pray you,
None, my lord.
Made suit to come in's presence; which if granted,
This comes off well; here's a wise officer.
They that of late were daring with their scoffs
That were some spite: my invocation
I sheathe again undeeded. There thou shouldst be;
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
Why will my lord do so?
Sick now! droop now! this sickness doth infect
Or wherefore dost abuse it, if thou hast it?
Have placed me in this sty, where, since I came,
Cannot pick out five such, take each one in his vein.
I'll show thee a precedent.
I loved him as in honour he required,
[Aside to CLARENCE]  He plies her hard; and much rain
And to be judged by him.
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,
O, sir, I find her milder than she was;
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good:
Exeunt
Yes, here I tender it for him in the court;
To spend that shortness basely were too long,
My prayers to heaven for you, my loyalty,
Cicero one!
your heart to see it. Her husband goes this morning
or since dishonour traffics with man's nature,
I'll believe both;
breath stinks with eating toasted cheese.
As dissolute as desperate; yet through both
you.
You lie, up to the hearing of the gods.
He falls to such perusal of my face
And do you now strew flowers in his way
He hates our sacred nation, and he rails,
King Henry the Fifth, too famous to live long!
By God, he shall not have a Scot of them;
Devouring pestilence hangs in our air
Tell him he hath made a match with such a wrangler
The business present: 'tis his highness' pleasure
whole, and let burnt sack be the issue. Come, lay
The name of honour more than I fear death.
We, having now the best at Barnet field,
Where's your father?
Prove that I cannot, take me home again,
ANTIPHOLUS
He hopes by you his fortunes yet may flourish.
Hence with him to the Tower; let him not speak.
Enter certain Senators, and pass over
This young gentlewoman had a father,--O, that
Indeed, left nothing fitting for the purpose
If it be so, Laertes--
if two such murderers as yourselves came to you,
Sweet, so would I:
more detraction at your heels than fortunes before
Did keep ten thousand men? was this the face
Now, my fair'st friend,
Exeunt severally PRIAM and HECTOR. Alarums
reformation. There shall be in England seven
Faith, we hear fearful news.
Which being violently borne upon,
If it be fond, call it a woman's fear;
The king has gone beyond me: all my glories
A spirit raised from depth of under-ground,
Be silent; let's see further.
Get you hence, for I must go
plainly, Claudio undergoes my challenge; and either
Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage,
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
And therefore think him as a serpent's egg
More, she's a traitor and Camillo is
mean pirates, and then there is the peril of waters,
Enter SIR OLIVER MARTEXT
I will proclaim my name about the field:
Thy flatterers yet wear silk, drink wine, lie soft;
I'll make it greater ere I part from thee;
Longer than I have time to tell his years!
DON
Tickled with good success, disdains the shadow
call me so.
What means that trump?
O,'tis fair play.
Give me your hands, if we be friends,
Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
Farewell, sweet masters both; I must be gone.
And what says she, I pray, sir?
For there young Henry with his nobles lie.
'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain.'
Your most dear daughter--
I feel such sharp dissension in my breast,
the wars do as every sick man in his bed, wash every
And chides the sea that sunders him from thence,
Be gone, I say; for, till you do return,
Re-enter ANTONIO, with the Ladies masked
Is to receive our duties; and our duties
to borrow of your masters, they approach sadly, and
you had appointed?
Enter SILVIA
The time is worth the use on't.
Hath so betray'd thine act: being done unknown,
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
I could not but by her. The other motive,
nor pibble pabble in Pompey's camp; I warrant you,
When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams.'
On blossoming Caesar; and this pine is bark'd,
The honour of my child.
To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion,
I have sent Cloten's clotpoll down the stream,
I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
And free from other misbegotten hate,
And could it work so much upon your shape
And trow you what he called me?
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
take me by the hand, and say 'Harry of England I am
Take that, until thou bring me better news.
sit like a jack-an-apes, never off. But, before God,
More sweet than our blest fields: his royal bird
To unstable slightness: purpose so barr'd,
I marvel I hear not of Master Brook; he sent me word
Let housewives make a skillet of my helm,
Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court
For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
Players in your housewifery, and housewives' in your beds.
Nay, I'll ne'er believe that; I have to show to the contrary.
Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
To lingering sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,
Lord cardinal, he is your prisoner.
Fain would I woo her, yet I dare not speak:
Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and others
We'll try that; for I'll appoint my men to carry the
Thy mantle good,
Now, good sir,
I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that
No, I'll nothing: for if I should be bribed too,
Give me no help in lamentation;
You knot of mouth-friends I smoke and lukewarm water
For she will score your fault upon my pate.
SCENE IV. Another part of the forest.
My wit untrain'd in any kind of art.
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
All this from my remembrance brutish wrath
I am not warm yet; let us fight again.
His borrow'd purse. Well, Jessica, go in;
Wast you he rescued?
I am commanded home. Get you away;
Moreover, thou hast put them in prison; and because
I make as little doubt, as you do conscience
Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle
That thou mightst repossess the crown in peace;
Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily
Why, how should she be murder'd?
What else, fellow?
From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
And with his charity slain.
I must shortly hear from him, or I will subscribe
We shall not marry till thou bid'st us.
And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
What's the matter.
Most rightful judge!
Losing a mite, a mountain gain.
Dare not relate.
Then wish me better; I will give you leave.
I'll not meddle with it: it is a dangerous thing: it
It hath happened all as I would have had it, save
How say you, Signior Gremio?
O, they have lived long on the alms-basket of words.
Since they love men in arms as well as beds.
That fill the court with quarrels, talk, and tailors.
Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.
Upon one battle all our liberties.
O, do not slander him, for he is kind.
Who hast the memory of Hermione,
their coats
If England to itself do rest but true.
overcame, three. Who came? the king: why did he
Turn our blown sails; eftsoons I'll tell thee why.
And very courtly counsel: I'll begin.
Here many sink, yet those which see them fall
O, such another sleep, that I might see
Is weaker than the wine; and mine own tongue
Exeunt FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and CAMILLO
It is foul weather in us all, good sir,
Attend our weightier judgment. And, not to swell
Indies; I understand moreover, upon the Rialto, he
No, but to the gate; and there will the devil meet
Whither goest thou?
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd
Not separated with the racking clouds,
I prithee, lady, have a better cheer;
Here's my son, sir, a poor boy,--
And I did never ask it you again;
Low alarums
By which I did blame Cato for the death
Come, come, Lavinia; look, thy foes are bound.
By sea and land; supplying every stage
Too noble for this place.
it makes him, and it mars him; it sets
And now I remember, my lord, you gave
If traffic do it, the gods do it.
words, and keeps whole weapons. For Nym, he hath
hast not slept to-night? would he not, a naughty
We both have fed as well, and we can both
Enter, and cry 'The Dauphin!' presently,
When thou wakest, if she be by,
Messala,
The crown of Tyre, but he will none:
Catch in their fury, and make nothing of;
Exeunt all but PERICLES
The means that heaven yields must be embraced,
Alarums: excursions. Enter THERSITES
With such holiness can you do it?
A servant only, and a gentleman
It is in vain; he will not speak to you.
To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead:
I will assume thy part in some disguise
Thus will I fold them one on another:
With her I lived in joy; our wealth increased
Rather than want a spirit: appear and pertly!
Enter Host, SHALLOW, SLENDER, and PAGE
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
infect yourself with them?
will be known to-night, or never. Be you in the
but little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as
In that he wears the badge of Somerset.
And try if they can gain your liberty.
He must be taught and train'd and bid go forth;
I know they are stuff'd with protestations
The noise goes, this: there is among the Greeks
runs before her actions.
Why, there was a crown offered him: and being
Exeunt
Nay, get thee gone.
to stay behind her. She is at the court, and no
The article of your oath; which you shall never
foot, sometimes my portly belly.
drowned: go, look after him.
That means not, hath not, or is not in love!
That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes,
Who cannot be crushed with a plot?
How say you to a fat tripe finely broil'd?
I see report is fabulous and false:
to-night, are those stars or suns upon it?
Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
Be moderate, be moderate.
And hardly understood.
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
more the pity, his white hairs do witness it; but
And make your bondmen tremble. Must I budge?
I, that did never weep, now melt with woe
ass.
fluent as the sea: turn the sands into eloquent
Exit
How I have thought of this and of these times,
You promised knighthood to our forward son:
Thersites is a fool to serve such a fool, and
My purpose was not to have seen you here;
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and two Gaolers
For often, with a solemn earnestness,
Constantinople and take the Turk by the beard?
To see your grace.
no great argument of her folly, for I will be
Gentlemen, enough of this: it came in too suddenly;
But what we do determine oft we break.
Till now I never knew thee!
Let York be regent; I will yield to him.
They are all but stomachs, and we all but food;
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Issue to me; that the contending kingdoms
Hum!
doublet, four through the hose; my buckler cut
The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes
already I have foolishly suffered.
Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
Some salve for perjury.
To see a king transformed to a gnat!
With sunken wreck and sunless treasuries.
In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy,
Sends you his princely commendations,
In our opinions she should be preferr'd.
Reads
And no more words till they have flow'd their fill.
But for the rest, you tell a pedigree
An oath, an oath, I have an oath in heaven:
When you disgraced me in my embassade,
His good remembrance, sir,
Have by their brave instruction got upon me
woman: and so, I pray thee, call Beatrice: I give
Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong,
Your mind is all as youthful as your blood.
To-day, my lord; and for three months before,
Which from the vineyard to the garden leads;
Now, fellows, you are welcome.
Hark, what fine change is in the music!
woman; sometime the philosopher.
Or overthrow incurable ensues.
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
good must of necessity hold his virtue to you; whose
That he shall likewise shuffle her away,
And for what cause thou camest to Ephesus.
Opposed against the act, bending his sword
And temper clay with blood of Englishmen:
I'll prove the prettier fellow of the two,
O perdurable shame! let's stab ourselves.
affairs of love, it may be said of him that Cupid
Lean, raw-boned rascals! who would e'er suppose
When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear.
I were best to leave him, for he will not hear.
Once by the king, and three times thrice by thee.
I have bargained for the joint,--
There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish,
He call'd them untaught knaves, unmannerly,
For this time, all the rest depart away:
And therefore certainly it were not good
Then must my earth with her continual tears
In stamps that are forbid: 'tis all as easy
daughter of Leonato.
man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.
themselves, till they attain to their abhorred ends,
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
And stay'd the odds by adding four.
good, here's none will hold you. Their love is not
I would your highness would depart the field:
Sit,--and some wine! A health to Lepidus!
your eyes as other women do.
thee, I bid thy master cut out the gown; but I did
We shall begin our ancient bickerings.
The badges of his grief and patience,
Ay, if you thought your love not cast away.
Be you his eunuch, and your mute I'll be:
Shame to the Duke of Burgundy and thee!
Then you lost
Two long days' journey, lords, or ere we meet.
Nay,'tis true.
you speak best unto the purpose, it is not worth the
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
Or die in the adventure, be my helps,
Lord Cromwell of Wingfield, Lord Furnival of Sheffield,
In the contempt and anger of his lip!
So. Begin.
To call him villain? and then to glance from him
We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely;
Upon the caves of Nile.
Exit EDMUND
These hands do lack nobility, that they strike
But, out, alas! here have we found him dead.
Stand not amazed; here is no remedy:
I have lost my hopes.
We are very sorry for't.
I will attend her here,
thee a steward still, the fellow of servants, and
say they are not the men you took them for.
Words, words, words.
Madam, he sends your ladyship this ring.
That I to your assistance do make love,
a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With die and
My weaved-up folly? Gentle Northumberland,
Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
You speak your fair pleasure, sweet queen. Fair
That are misled upon your cousin's part;
the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will; and
so many, like brothers, commanding one another's
Lewis marry Blanch! O boy, then where art thou?
Thou art perfect then, our ship hath touch'd upon
Who's that that bears the sceptre?
Presenteth them unto the gazing moon
And here is my speech. Stand aside, nobility.
Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
Thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind.
When capital crimes, chew'd, swallow'd and digested,
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
To prove upon thy heart, whereto I speak,
And send forth us, to make their sorrow'd render,
Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death,
Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:
For these contempts.
In supplication nod: and my young boy
No, Paris is not; for you know 'tis true,
Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee.
Sad and solemn music
What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug,
Upon a barren mountain and still winter
And makes himself an artificial night:
Stand up, stand up; stand, and you be a man:
Plead for our interest and our being here.
Exeunt
Reading out of a paper
Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words.
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
Look to your house, your daughter and your bags!
The leperous distilment; whose effect
these are in the moon. But, silence! here comes Thisbe.
Clap on more sails; pursue; up with your fights:
My lord, you do not well in obstinacy
To thee, King John, my holy errand is.
Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
And mince it sans remorse: swear against objects;
The inevitable prosecution of
To him and his usurp'd authority.
there to-morrow, there is a great coil to-night.
he come; for, sure, the man is tainted in's wits.
The spirit torments me; Oh!
For that, being one o' the lowest, basest, poorest,
Interprets for my poor ignorance.
Of time, of numbers and due course of things,
We number nothing that we spend for you:
To the tender of our present.
To new-store France with bastard warriors.
Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye;
Desiring thee to lay aside the sword
My father was attached, not attainted,
For pale they look with fear, as witnessing
Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart,
Whose beard they have singed off with brands of fire;
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be
What canst thou swear by now?
Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool;
O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell,
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
Write loyal cantons of contemned love
Home both in word and deed. Most cruelly
Our business valued, some twelve days hence
Kills himself
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
He gives the bastinado with his tongue:
How should I be revenged? If this be true,--
Hautboys
If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights,
That shows the ignorant a kind of fear
Was with long use account no sin.
That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch:
SCENE II. KING JOHN'S palace.
could have rebuked him at Harfleur, but that we
what things are we!
And you the calendars of their nativity,
Though more to know could not be more to trust,
great oneyers, such as can hold in, such as will
For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
Ha' not you seen, Camillo,--
methinks, is the curse dependent on those that war
and whatever praises itself but in the deed, devours
That all my bowels crumble up to dust:
Seem you that you are not?
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
And spleen of speed to see your majesty!
I wonder now how yonder city stands
Stay, stay thy hands! thou art an Amazon
I am sure of that: and at her late being here
Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
Item, Bread,        ob.
To tell thee whence thou camest, of whom derived,
Belike they had some notice of the people,
Brutus, a word with you.
SCENE II. The forest.
Because I know you well and love you well,
Her head's declined, and death will seize her, but
Or my divine soul answer it in heaven.
I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,
Of thy intents desires instruction,
As deputy unto that gracious king,
He had no other death's-man. Let us see:
I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world.
Would fain have come with me to meet your grace,
basket. Go up; I'll bring linen for him straight.
That all in England did repute him dead:
Nay, sure, he's not in hell: he's in Arthur's
The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane,
Your speech is passion:
Hie thee to hell for shame, and leave the world,
Is by a forged process of my death
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you are,
Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove:
Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
Quite in the wrong. How do you now, lieutenant?
Shall we hear from thee, Tyrrel, ere we sleep?
But never doubt I love.
What will whole months of tears thy father's eyes?
Since I saw you last,
blow us. There was a haberdasher's wife of small
His bed shall seem a school, his board a shrift;
And here he means to spend his time awhile:
Enter HORTENSIO
Here's goodly gear!
Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too,
own defence?
As rank as any flax-wench that puts to
You were about to speak.
But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
For such a warped slip of wilderness
fortune! here comes the man: to him, father; for I
Marry, would the word 'farewell' have lengthen'd hours
The soil, the profit and this kind of life,
Sowter will cry upon't for all this, though it be as
For such things in a false disloyal knave
To-morrow then belike shall be the day,
Farewell, my masters; to my task will I;
If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
To a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf
More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life;
My uncle practises more harm to me:
Blessing of his heart!
Then go we in, to know his embassy;
But edifies another with her deeds.
As upright as the cedar.
Glad that you thus continue your resolve
France is a stable; we that dwell in't jades;
Do plainly give you out an unstain'd shepherd,
may, but at the length truth will out.
Do not presume too much upon my love;
DON
More than their own! What then? how then?
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
You may have very fit occasion for't: he is now in
Why, this is strange. Go call the abbess hither.
That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
Saint Denis to Saint Cupid! What are they
that all the beholders take his part with weeping.
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
They shoot
A puffed man?
to thy heart, and farewell.'
Poor Tom shall lead thee.
Shylock thy master spoke with me this day,
ANTIPHOLUS
Will you hear't again?
Thou art no father nor no friend of mine.
Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done 't:
Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf!
Defiance to the traitor, and so die?
There is a sickness
If I do dream, would all my wealth would wake me!
But though my cates be mean, take them in good part;
Vexations of it! Had I been thief-stol'n,
Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon,
Our merchants' goods at Bourdeaux.
I and my brother are not known; yourself
Against the proclamation of thy passion,
Andromache, I am offended with you:
Still neighbour mine. My ships are ready and
But qualify the fire's extreme rage,
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
I will end here.
think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed:
And let it answer every strain for strain,
So strongly that they dare not meet each other;
I have dined.
I think his soul is in hell, madonna.
Into a towering passion.
The urging of that word 'judgment' hath bred a kind
Why, whose is it?
If he could right himself with quarreling,
That most are busied when they're most alone,
With long continuance in a settled place.
One of these men is Genius to the other;
Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting,
Cupid is a knavish lad,
Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
Drives him beyond the bounds of patience.
But yet we want a colour for his death:
I'ld strive to tell you. We were dead of sleep,
I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,
My fortunes were more able to relieve her;
And come some other time to know our mind.
In seven short years, that here my only son
Hath fear'd the valiant: by my love I swear
From Leonati seat, and cast
Exit
And I another.
not a Jew eyes? hath not a Jew hands, organs,
hair, complexion, height, age, with warrant of her
friends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot,
But 'twas ere I was born.
Should in their own confines with forked heads
ship-tire, the tire-valiant, or any tire of
For shame! leave Henry, and call Edward king.
And pill by law. Maid, to thy master's bed;
year, though Hero had turned nun, if it had not been
I am very glad of it: I'll plague him; I'll torture
Their eyes o'ergalled with recourse of tears;
The villain is much lighter-heel'd than I:
Here lacks but your mother for to say amen.
Thunder. Second Apparition: A bloody Child
Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;
Which is so serious. Let us bury him,
Whom every thing becomes, to chide, to laugh,
Boy!
another style.
Distinguish him from others, he did keep
passion without some instruction. It is not words
Will bless the king: and is not this course pious?
Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child
What further woe conspires against mine age?
O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily
Prithee, be my present partner in this business, and
I will advise you where to plant yourselves;
We have had pelting wars, since you refused
Without debatement further, more or less,
thou hast blushed extempore. Thou hadst fire and
Vouchsafe, defused infection of a man,
Which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name,
What mean you, sir? for God's sake, hold your hands!
Were hid against me, now to forgive me frankly.
ACT I
Come, 'tis no matter:
And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
My Lord Sands, you are one will keep 'em waking;
What Propugnation is in one man's valour,
'The pig,' quoth I, 'is burn'd;' 'My gold!' quoth he:
When thou canst get the ring upon my finger which
Presenting HORTENSIO
What touches us ourself shall be last served.
It stands in like request?
What is thy name? I know thy quality.
Than two tens to a score.
staves, and strong ones: these are but switches to
lord of Gloucester.
Sir Thomas Lovell, I as free forgive you
O, peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkey-cock
It is her habit only that is honest,
I am sure you know him well enough.
Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
All merciless proceeding by these French
And gives his potent regiment to a trull,
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
Parts from this finger, then parts life from hence:
'Tis hot, it smokes;
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
At first I did adore a twinkling star,
Whose deaths are yet unrevenged: I prithee,
Exit THURIO
That same Diomed's a false-hearted rogue, a most
Aside to SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
And, gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse,
This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Alarums. Enter MACDUFF
Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.
Shall be to you, as us, like glorious.
spin for her living.
ACT I
That makes calamity of so long life;
on his shoulders, unless he pay me tribute; there
They stand, and would have parley.
Exit Second Clown
Exit
Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate,
Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make road.
Veal, quoth the Dutchman. Is not 'veal' a calf?
Exeunt
Of a night-brawler? give me answer to it.
The outward composition of his body.
A crowd of people; among them ARTEMIDORUS and the  Soothsayer. Flourish. Enter CAESAR, BRUTUS,  CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, METELLUS CIMBER,  TREBONIUS, CINNA, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POPILIUS, PUBLIUS, and others
them. I begin to find an idle and fond bondage
Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence.
No. madam, he does nothing but smile: your
use me with estimation.
Adieu, adieu, adieu.
A serving-man, proud in heart and mind; that curled
I will have it no lay.
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.
That I may speak: I'll write straight to my sister,
proclamation; but he made a groan at it, and swore
Were nothing prince-like; for he did provoke me
I shall, my liege.
So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive
Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords,
Stand by, or I shall gall you, Faulconbridge.
Brutus is ta'en, Brutus is ta'en, my lord.
O, I know where you are: nay, 'tis true: there was
Now thy proud neck bears half my burthen'd yoke;
Why, how now, father!
By bud of nobler race: this is an art
Bloody and guilty, guiltily awake,
swaggering accent sharply twanged off, gives manhood
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
are coming.
Hast thou not spirit to curse thine enemy?
Boy, I do love that country girl that I took in the
The time will not allow the compliment
First, that, without the king's assent or knowledge,
marriage-hour,
That my poor mistress, moved therewithal,
This morning for ten thousand of your throats
False justicer, why hast thou let her 'scape?
Exeunt APEMANTUS and Fool
O, handle not the theme, to talk of hands,
And would usurp upon my watery eyes
Dies
Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
two brace of greyhounds.
And the best half should have return'd to him,
only in Patient stillness while his rider mounts
Wilt dine with me, Apemantus?
To royalize his blood I spilt mine own.
Faith, nothing; but has left me here behind, to
For all the temporal lands which men devout
Whilst I had been like heedful of the other:
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me;
To ORLANDO
Why, I must die;
We have been praying for our husbands' healths,
Their brave pavilions: Priam's six-gated city,
Is stopp'd with dust; the first of April died
Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life:
Hell only danceth at so harsh a chime.
But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours?
Under the hoofs of vaunting enemies,
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
But the worst of me. So, I leave you, sir,
Conscience is but a word that cowards use,
Go home to bed, and like the owl by day,
Commended to our master, not to us:
Built up, this city, for his chiefest seat:
Sirrah, be gone, or talk not, I advise you.
Beaufort, it is thy sovereign speaks to thee.
Look what you do, you do it still i' the dark.
What if I do not? as, indeed, I do not;
'Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more.'
Her husband banish'd; she imprison'd: all
Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke:
accusation.
Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.
Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.
Perforce be their acquaintance. These exactions,
Thus, sir:
Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them;
I'll draw the curtain:
For the deposing of a rightful king.
So much I hate a breaking cause to be
marry, yet 'tis a withered pear: will you anything with it?
Peace! the charm's wound up.
To the duke himself, to tax him with injustice?
But by the chance of war; to prove that true
Give me your hand.
In your fine frame hath love no quality?
himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude.
And do not shear the fleeces that I graze:
The loss, the gain, the ordering on't, is all
So should we you, if you should be our king.
But by particular consent proceeded
Do you hear, you minion? you'll let us in, I hope?
him; then entertain him, then forswear him; now weep
And this my neighbour too?
He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes.
surprise me. My sword make way for me, for here is
And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well.
Come, blade, my breast imbrue:
her, she hath such a celerity in dying.
That my master was? no, forsooth: my master said
[Aside]  So wise so young, they say, do never
As if the golden fee for which I plead
I know no personal cause to spurn at him,
I were best not to call; I dare not call:
Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form;
The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time;
A murderous villain, and so still thou art.
And dost thou now fall over to my fores?
Master, for my hand,
Your only choice.
and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he
When the hurlyburly's done,
I do not know; I am sure I am none such.
I never did her any, to my knowledge.
Where, I confess, I slept not, but profess
Deep malice makes too deep incision;
Exeunt
I would not, so with love I might entreat you,
Passion, I see, is catching; for mine eyes,
Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.
Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?
Call them again, my lord, and accept their suit.
Then nightly sings the staring owl, 	Tu-whit;
As when, by night and negligence, the fire
Opinion's but a fool, that makes us scan
I said so, dear Katharine; and I must not blush to
purgation. I have trod a measure; I have flattered
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
further charge, that you swerve not from the
How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat,
To quit the bloody wrongs upon her foes.
Didst break that vow; and with thy treacherous blade
What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails
I may do that I shall be sorry for.
how many is killed?
To the tent-royal of their emperor;
Cicero is dead,
An't be any way, it must be with valour; for policy
Then bring me to their sights; I'll bear thy blame
Her delicate cheek: it seem'd she was a queen
Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
Which if we should deny, the most just gods
All preparation for a bloody siege
So white, and such a traitor!
To see if any mean to shrink from me.
Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration,
Prague, that never saw pen and ink, very wittily
With all his covent, honourably received him;
Unless I look on Silvia in the day,
Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads
No more obey the heavens than our courtiers
Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England's breed,--
And free us from his slavery.
Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
'zounds, I would make him eat a piece of my sword.
Sir, will you hear me?
Enter KATHARINA and BIANCA
SCENE III. France. KING LEWIS XI's palace.
Seems more than we shall find it: were it good
Hourly afflict: merely, thou art death's fool;
When I have envied thy behavior.
We count not worth the hanging, but none human,
you, he hath a fair daughter, and to-morrow is her
Think on my words.
To business with the king, more than the scope
Commodity, the bias of the world,
How found you him?
The follower of so poor a gentleman.
Exeunt
God will revenge it. But come, let us in,
Let's march without the noise of threatening drum,
About their functions friendly.
I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a
should do for clients her fitment, and do me the
leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon.
Which shall to all our nights and days to come
QUEEN GERTRUDE falls
his to her: it was a violent commencement, and thou
As they us to our trenches followed.
give thee none.
Nurse!
I know this act shows horrible and grim.
So you do condescend to help me now.
From the fix'd place; drew from heart all love,
List.
A shrewd turn, if she pleased.
This grave shall have a living monument:
MARCUS and the Sons of TITUS kneel
Exit MOTH
Their iron indignation 'gainst your walls:
Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
Live, Brutus! live, live!
Our treasures seized, our soldiers put to flight,
To-morrow to my bloody creditor.
Her stature to an inch; as wand-like straight;
Peace! stand aside: the company parts.
This be not cherish'd.
He is a sick man that would speak with you.
Welcome, dear cousin, my thoughts' sovereign
Which honour does acknowledge, whereof the least
subjects afore thee like a flock of wild-geese,
Me, as his abject object: at this instant
Begun through malice of the bishop's men.
Already at a point, was setting forth.
With keels of every kind: many hot inroads
together. Villanous thoughts, Roderigo! when these
this can sack and drinking do. A murrain on
Let them accuse me by invention, I
But are you sure
But Cassius is no more. O setting sun,
O Jesu, I have heard the prince tell him, I know not
the lewdly-inclined. I'll bring home some to-night.
and by again.
bachelor; and by how much defence is better than no
Exit
Catch sung
Retire to win our purpose.
master agree? I have brought him a present. How
Exeunt
[To POLONIUS]  God save you, sir!
And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown
Marry, will I, sir; and, for that I promised you,
One sand another
Fair Diomed, you do as chapmen do,
But to our honour's great disparagement,
I do not love to look on.
Thou hast finish'd joy and moan:
What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted!
avoids them with great discretion, or undertakes
Whither away, Sir John Fastolfe, in such haste?
Exeunt
If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the
I am an ass, indeed; you may prove it by my long
And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs,
out by that?
My lord, will you be true?
The luck of Caesar, which the gods give men
Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.
And lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed;
Would you not have me honest?
Unfit to hear moral philosophy:
This is a strange repose, to be asleep
They say King John sore sick hath left the field.
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN]  What say you?
The bearer knows not, but commends itself
That would divorce this terror from my heart;'
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
I am freely dissolved, and dissolutely.
O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.
Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!
If thou with Caesar paragon again
I was about to tell thee:--when my heart,
To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse!
For Warwick is a subtle orator,
run into, in that it is a thing of his own search
And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world
sometime like a lawyer; sometime like a philosopher,
Good king, that must approve the common saw,
Prophetically doth forethink thy fall.
O, he's drunk, Sir Toby, an hour agone; his eyes
Have left me naked to mine enemies.
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
at: for if, look you, he were my brother, I would
And draw her home with music.
God save King Henry, of that name the sixth!
whom came he? to the beggar: what saw he? the
It appears so by his weapons. Keep them asunder:
Is 'plain and true;' there's all the reach of it.
villanous speeches of the duke.
The close contriver of all harms,
That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
This maugre all the world will I keep safe,
To do upon respect such violent outrage:
and hear the lady sing in Welsh.
As well to see the vessel that's come in
'Tis to be fear'd they all will follow him.
shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help and said
Are you so hasty now? well, all is one.
And vows to crown himself in Westminster.
Of you their captives, which ourself have granted:
That those whom you call'd fathers did beget you.
When it is lighted, come and call me here.
And to obey shall be in me remorse,
Thus would I wear them out.
Ha!
O damn'd Iago! O inhuman dog!
The people in the street cry Romeo,
Betwixt our armies true intelligence.
Where's his examination?
Lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount
Stark, as you see:
And duty in his service perishing.
What's thy passion!
Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.
O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off,
Exeunt
More than I seem, and less than I was born to:
What with our help, what with the absent king,
And of an earthy cold? Mark her eyes!
the middle and but one half of what he was
Poor queen! so that thy state might be no worse,
a good house; and for his ransom he will give you
Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee.
That respites me a life, whose very comfort
At land, indeed,
For our beloved mother in her pains.
Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
Fast to the chair: be heedful: hence, and watch.
My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
Doth for a wife abhor. But her fair sister,
Alack, sir, he is mad.
What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
For you in my respect are all the world:
Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
Why, then we rack the value, then we find
And that thou oft provokest; yet grossly fear'st
Nay, my lord,
Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
Moulded the stuff so fair,
SCENE III. An ante-chamber in the palace.
I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of
Staying him
knees; that she would make a puritan of the devil,
Be noble to myself: but, hark thee, Charmian.
The violent carriage of it
If want it be not that she is not he:
will be a biting affliction.
Something from Venice, sure. 'Tis Lodovico
To stop his ears against admonishment?
For one poor grain or two!
Dolour comes to him, indeed: you
Thy back, I prithee.
Profit again should hardly draw me here.
For forty ducats is too much to lose.
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
Enter a Messenger
That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome;
That dies in tempest of thy angry frown.
Not doing 't and being done: he, most humane
Or should, or should not, bar us in our claim:
Let us assay our plot; which, if it speed,
Where sits deformity to mock my body;
As waggish boys in game themselves forswear,
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
nose for thy speeches?
Whilst the heavy ploughman snores,
Rage must be withstood:
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
Here are the heads of thy two noble sons;
When he by night lay bathed in maiden blood.
Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,
With more than half the Gallian territories,
May justly diet me. I pray you yet;
Infected be the air whereon they ride;
A scum of Bretons, and base lackey peasants,
And 'tis no marvel he is so humorous.
Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers!
Marry, I will, let them play it. Is not a
Indeed, I have been merrier.
of; and void of all profanation in the world that
What do you read, my lord?
Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.
like the horse; with a linen stock on one leg and a
Quitting thee thereby of ten thousand shames,
But I must also feel it as a man:
And so she shall; Lucentio shall make one,
My lord, I did;
Now forth, lord constable and princes all,
Well, I have told you enough of this: for my part,
To be commanded.
Nothing else: you shall see him a palm in Athens
'Tis a strange serpent.
At Lacedaemon and Byzantium
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
I only swore to study with your grace
Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her.
And worse than Progne I will be revenged:
I know when one is dead, and when one lives;
Here, in the thigh: can I bear that with patience.
Although the last, not least; to whose young love
Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
SCENE II. The same. A public place.
If from the field I shall return once more
With musics of all sorts and songs composed
If wrongs be evils and enforce us kill,
His grandam's wrongs, and not his mother's shames,
Or, if she be accused in true report,
To cavil in the course of this contract:
their faction: but it was a strong composure a fool
Grant that, and then is death a benefit:
The like of him. Know'st thou this country?
So, bring us to our palace; where we'll show
That's because the one is painted and the other out
When blood is nipp'd and ways be foul,
Let's see once more this saying graved in gold
Who lives that's not depraved or depraves?
You take the sum and substance that I have.
Caesar's sister is called Octavia.
That gave him out incurable,--
The which my love and some necessity
O Dieu vivant! shall a few sprays of us,
grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent;
Have notice what we purpose. I shall break
look you, be an ass and a fool and a prating
We will have rings and things and fine array;
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
And why so?
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him.
To make their audit at your highness' pleasure,
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
To be regarded in her sun-bright eye.
He's welcome.
Because your speech hath none that tells him so?
Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
Cried he? and begg'd a' pardon?
A man in much esteem with the king, and truly
As will to greatness dedicate themselves,
The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
In these two princely boys! They are as gentle
Hail, heaven!
And by the leave of my good lord the king,
'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
That, notwithstanding thy capacity
Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman?
Or any other ground inhabitable,
You wrong me, Signior Gremio: give me leave.
thing that is fitting to be known, discover.
You have shot over.
Yet, for a greater confirmation,
To strive for that which resteth in my choice:
Good day at once.
Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me.
Ely with Richmond troubles me more near
Then 'tis he: the rest
And her pale fire she snatches from the sun:
For we may pity, though not pardon thee.
To gentle exercise and proof of arms.
Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
If it be sin to say so, I yoke me
I charge thee on thy allegiance.
At the south entry: retire we to our chamber;
Than thou hast to deny 't. Come, let us go:
Varro's Servants	And ours, my lord.
Endue you with the people's voice: remains
In nature there's no blemish but the mind;
Drum afar off
Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted
Yield many scholars.
Yet Caesar shall go forth; for these predictions
What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?
Enter VAUX
The French exclaim'd, the devil was in arms;
I'll make the statue move indeed, descend
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
Our temple was he married. Rise, and fade.
And those eyes, the break of day,
And two such shores to two such streams made one,
Send for the county; go tell him of this:
proportion the losses we have borne, the subjects we
While I myself will lead a private life
A' was a merry man--took up the child:
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
Now blessed be the great Apollo!
But, were my worth as is my conscience firm,
Why, this, Volumnius:
Which seasons comfort. Who may this be? Fie!
With silken coats and caps and golden rings,
thing hereafter.
With comforting repose, and not for us
That look too lofty in our commonwealth:
Pages, and footboys.
DON
Till cruel Cleon, with his wicked wife,
Which way would Hector have it?
Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel?
Come, come; will't please you go?
One word, sweet queen:
our prains together to be revenge on this same
Ambitious love hath so in me offended,
Do't, and to bed then.
To guard the chicken from a hungry kite,
Weary se'nnights nine times nine
He is as disproportion'd in his manners
Exit
you serve God?
Of thy assault: if he shall think it fit,
Your hopes and friends are infinite.
Too bad for bad report: and he that hath her--
Dispose of them as thou know'st their deserts.
I see a woman may be made a fool,
Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune;
Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
all three all ready.
Ourself and Bushy, Bagot here and Green
By silken, sly, insinuating Jacks?
Mardian, go tell him I have slain myself;
Fie on lust and luxury!
Let this be done.
No, I'll not go: you hear what he hath said
can witness.
Enter IDEN, with CADE'S head
Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath!
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
When fame shall in our islands sound her trump,
And comfort me with cold. I do not ask you much,
Enter the Sheriff, and BUCKINGHAM, with halberds, led to execution
In all designs begun on earth below
Dorset, embrace him; Hastings, love lord marquess.
SCENE II. A public place.
My house was at the Phoenix? Wast thou mad,
or four wenches, where I stood, cried 'Alas, good
O husband, God doth know you dined at home;
You have little cause to say so.
Devour up my discourse: which I observing,
She wish'd me to make known; but our great court
patent to offend; for, if it touch not you, it comes
I knew you not: what news with you so early?
First, forward to the temple: after dinner
To show the letter that I writ to you.
Beaufort's red sparkling eyes blab his heart's malice,
To climb celestial Silvia's chamber-window,
And keep us all in servile fearfulness.
on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us.
As this I would: ay, though thou didst produce
two cods and, giving her them again, said with
Exeunt Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
Beating him
To thee the reed is as the oak:
And so stand fix'd: peace, plenty, love, truth, terror,
deceiving father of a deceitful son.
What wouldst thou have with me?
Indeed, Master Ford, this is not well, indeed.
There's meaning in thy snores.
To this same place, to this same monument.
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
--O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart
To see this vaulted arch, and the rich crop
Keep law and form and due proportion,
How now! are the horses ready?
Procure me some access.
For so I see she must be, 'fore Leontes:
That ride upon the violent speed of fire,
And the great care of goods at random left
But greater sin to keep a sinful oath.
Round about the cauldron go;
On the first view to say, to swear, I love thee.
Misused ere used, by time misused o'erpast.
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
Do it then, that we may account thee a whoremaster
How I may formally in person bear me
Ugly and slanderous to thy mother's womb,
Falls asleep
estimations; the one is but frail and the other
He seems to be of great authority: close with him,
'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady: we may pick a
They fight
If it be not, forswear't: howe'er, I charge thee,
Either expound now, or receive your sentence.
Assuredly the thing is to be sold:
Than curse it then. But be it; let it live.
with a kiss, and let not him speak neither.
What willingly he did confound he wail'd,
come; methinks his flesh is punished, he shall have
good natures
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness; I
A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good livery
To take off so much grief from you as he
unbolted villain into mortar, and daub the wall of
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
So, if a son that is by his father sent about
Nay, be brief
The abhorr'd ingredient to his eye, make known
Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue; so your face
If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can; but if he be a
I do believe,
love-song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the
The power of man, for none of woman born
Sharp Buckingham unburthens with his tongue
exquisite friend.
Enter HORATIO, MARCELLUS, and BERNARDO
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd,
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
give the dozen white luces in their coat.
Enter MORTIMER, brought in a chair, and Gaolers
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
twelvemonth to a crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
I do presume, sir, that you are not fallen
Go on before; I shall inquire you forth:
Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
And in his commendations I am fed;
to have had so much blood in him.
God-a-mercy, old heart! thou speak'st cheerfully.
Ay, and her father is make her a petter penny.
You do remember all the circumstance?
I am as able and as fit as thou
Give me the letter; I will look on it.
One that but performs
Pray, be not sick,
Exit
Which break themselves in swearing!
Exit
Thou crossest me? what honour dost thou seek
And when I have heard it, what blessing brings it?
To your direction. Hubert, what news with you?
Will money buy 'em?
More than remembrance of my father's death.
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings,
To excuse their after wrath: husband, I come:
belly's as cold as if I had swallowed snowballs for
Was mine in Britain, for the ring is won.
should sing.
Between her brother and Mark Antony.
The blot and enemy to our general name!
To the winds whose pity, sighing back again,
Exeunt Gentleman and Attendants
I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
Come, there's no more tribute to be paid: our
There's nothing level in our cursed natures,
So far be distant; and, good night, sweet friend:
Or fill up chronicles in time to come,
Quoth who?
His semblable, yea, himself, Timon disdains:
jealous in France.
Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears,
To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she foxes!
me out of tune.
Thou shalt not die whiles--
There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you:
I had in charge at my depart for France,
Let Somerset be regent over the French,
He that a fool doth very wisely hit
The latest breath that gave the sound of words
relief, if it be but for that. if I can recover him
Inform us of thy fortunes, for it seems
And palter in the shifts of lowness; who
They are at it, hark! Proud Diomed, believe,
Does challenge much respect. Come, Desdemona,
I humbly do entreat your highness' pardon;
Now crack thy lungs, and split thy brazen pipe:
While we lie tumbling in the hay.
may be chosen out of the gross band of the
And I would have it suddenly perform'd.
I draw the sword myself: take it, and hit
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
march of twelve-score. The money shall be paid
And then when poison'd hours had bound me up
'Coram.'
I do hate a proud man, as I hate the engendering of toads.
And tame the savage spirit of wild war,
That ever hath but clipp'd his body, is dearer
How thou lovest us, show in our brother's welcome;
Forbear till this company be past.
Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.
let me be boiled to death with melancholy.
Let two more summers wither in their pride,
Seize on him, Furies, take him to your torments!'
This bald unjointed chat of his, my lord,
banished with her father?
Sleep shall neither night nor day
Upon our houses' thatch, whiles a more frosty people
With ribands pendent, flaring 'bout her head;
time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
And tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge.
But is four Volsces? none of you but is
To the ground, and all the world shall mourn her.
But, woe the while! our fathers' minds are dead,
eyes; I will move storms, I will condole in some
And that's the mark I know you level at:
Is strange and peevish.
Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
Oppressed nature sleeps:
In aspiration lifts him from the earth.
Ere he should thus have ventured.
I would you had never seen him!
Some shipping unrestored: lastly, he frets
It is the witness still of excellency
Meet to be sent on errands: is it fit,
To hinder our beginnings. We doubt not now
He bears too great a mind. But this same day
He shall be satisfied; and, by my honour,
talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries
As is the razor's edge invisible,
You see how simple and how fond I am.
How now! where's the king?
you, and you shall be married to-morrow.
Not without fair reward.
Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.
'Tis not so much worth; but I hope I was perfect: I
Who did strike out the light?
And I, who at his hands received my life, him
tarry so long. But I would be loath to fall into
More measure of this measure; be not nice.
uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
Well, you are come to me in a happy time;
I will not fail you.
Go get you gone, and let the papers lie:
That paper in your hand?
He hath refused it in the open court:
ANTIPHOLUS
Go in with me: my duty cannot suffer
What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
How, Camillo,
I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
Yes, if you will, my lord.
They'll sit by the fire, and presume to know
His glittering arms he will commend to rust,
If any power pities wretched tears,
Fear me not:
Not shine to-day! Why, what is that to me
That being pass'd for consul with full voice,
The king hath on him such a countenance
Are my chests fill'd up with extorted gold?
Is richly furnished with plate and gold;
In this day's council; but we'll take to-morrow.
And gave the tongue a helpful ornament,
No blown ambition doth our arms incite,
none but libertines delight in him; and the
Let not the piece of virtue, which is set
Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers' sons
He last asked the question. Poor rogues, and
Are you three usurers' men?
They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
parcel of their feast, and to be executed ere they
By sovereignty of nature. First he was
Of prisoners' ransom and of soldiers slain,
What effects, my lord? She will sit you, you heard
Well, I hope it be not so.
I could match this beginning with an old tale.
Truly, I think they are.
What a sigh is there! The heart is sorely charged.
Like syllable of dolour.
Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.
'Tis well, mistress; your choice agrees with mine;
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
wherewith,--
I will not choose what many men desire,
Prithee, see there! behold! look! lo!
Let me be punish'd, that have minded you
franklins say it, I'll swear it.
Away at once with love or jealousy!
but my wife, master doctor, is for you altogether.
That I would set my lie on any chance,
Come, go with me; peruse this as thou goest:
On fair ground
Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,
mortality, and desperately mortal.
As not to know the language I have lived in:
Ay, sir, but I am sure I do not; and whatsoever a
What?
Not a false gallop.
With Sir John Stanley, in the Isle of Man.
Heaven knows how dearly. My next poor petition
The mind that I do! what a sleep were this
Lend me an arm; the rest have worn me out
Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou
What should you do, but knock 'em down by the
Gratiano and Lorenzo. Fare ye well:
A breed for barren metal of his friend?
Must cast thee, scarcely coffin'd, in the ooze;
Sent he to Macduff?
Loved none in the world so well as Lucentio.
Yes, that goodness
I serve thee not.
These yellow cowslip cheeks,
I see no reason why a king of years
Widow, we will consider of your suit;
That mought not be distinguished; but at last
To vouch this, is no proof,
Coriolanus' exile. Now he's coming;
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
Exeunt DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, and CLAUDIO
Your grace's title shall be multiplied.
By some damn'd hand was robb'd and ta'en away.
Counting myself but bad till I be best.
The gods do this in shame of cowardice:
And bow my knee before his majesty:
Thy overflow of good converts to bad,
Will you give me money, captain?
That makes me ugly; and, besides, the Moor
Call not your stocks for me: I serve the king;
And that dead saint which then I weeping follow'd;
In it be memorised.
It is the humane way: the other course
Quicken with kissing: had my lips that power,
Madam, O good empress!
gentleman, Lord Lucullus, entreats your company
Upon what ground?
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
Were not erected by their hands from whom
To fright the animals and to kill them up
That ever wall-eyed wrath or staring rage
I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom:
Save thee, Timon.
You'll nothing, madam, to my lord by me?
Hath set the women on to this complaint:
If I have any grace or power to move you,
His father revell'd in the heart of France,
All happiness bechance to thee in Milan!
That have beheld me give away myself
and I sall quit you with gud leve, as I may pick
Why good fellow,
Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears
Exeunt
Reveal how thou at sea didst lose thy wife:
His very genius hath taken the infection of the device, man.
If he were that which now he's like, that's dead;
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and SIR ANDREW
I had rather heat my liver with drinking.
ACT III
labour: he that loves to be flattered is worthy o'
that is certain; and of great expedition and
Re-enter MARIA
I think I shall command your welcome here,
Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear,
That is not quickly buzzed into his ears?
Stand in their ancient strength.
And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
The grosser manner of these world's delights
Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
one, I tell you, that will not miss you morning nor
And, for thy humour, I will stay at home.
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes,
With this field-dew consecrate,
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord,
public shame as the rest of the court can possibly devise.'
Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
soul being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.
man's sworn spouse; set not thy sweet heart on proud
Come, boy, prepare yourself.
Were't not all one, an empty eagle were set
Nay, let 'em be unmanly, yet are follow'd.
Come, shall we hear this music?
Though I should swear I saw't: 'tis very much:
For instant remedy: be then desired
For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out
If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be
Then take thine auld cloak about thee.
He is a traitor; let him to the Tower,
A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns,
With winds that sailors rail at.
Bear me forthwith unto his creditor,
He is slain.
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
SCENE III. Troy. Before Priam's palace.
Which when I saw, I reprehended them;
And this withal.
They know their master loves to be aloft,
Since you do take it, love, so much at heart.
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious;
Will I for ever and my faction wear,
Shall sit and pant in your great chairs of ease,
Keep the peace, I say.
Do we, my lord?
Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse,
wont, when you laughed, to crow like a cock; when you
your tongues, and not a word more.
Making defeat on the full power of France,
Exeunt
bottom were as deep as hell, I should down. I had
Crying 'O dear Cassio!' as it were: his gesture
No more, I say! For that I have not wash'd
O, very well; I have perused the note.
In deadly hate the one against the other:
Enter LEONTES, CLEOMENES, DION, PAULINA, and Servants
But come, my lord; and with a heavy heart,
And egally indeed to all estates,--
Thou wast whelped a dog, and thou shalt famish a
the discharge: your neck, sir, is pen, book and
Grace! not so, friend: honour and lordship are my titles.
If this were true, then should I know this secret.
None better than to let him fetch off his drum,
Perchance shall dry your pities: but I have
Thy knower, Patroclus: then tell me, Patroclus,
Let's see; I think 'tis now some seven o'clock,
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk
Which pleasure fits an husband, not a father;
Of some such thing?
bonnet: then, if ever thou darest acknowledge it, I
No, my good lords, it is not that offends;
Lo, you, my lord,
He rush'd into my house and took perforce
Tell me how Wales was made so happy as
As well I tender you and all of yours!
Here comes the rogue.
Pray you, be round with him.
When grief, and blood ill-temper'd, vexeth him?
carrying your letter.
I'll to my queen and beg her Indian boy;
Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out;
He made a blushing cital of himself;
For she was born at sea, I have named so, here
Could all my travels warrant me they live.
The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive
Talk with a ruffian at her chamber-window
Thou dost make possible things not so held,
Whose high imperious thoughts have punish'd me
Hector, by this, is arming him in Troy;
Must my sweet Nan present the Fairy Queen;
Weapons! arms! What 's the matter here?
Ay, that I had not done a thousand more.
Pray you, go, Master Page.
And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall:
And made us doff our easy robes of peace,
For things are often spoke and seldom meant:
With this, my lord, myself have nought to do.
Boy, Lucius! Varro! Claudius! Sirs, awake! Claudius!
And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,--
And bite thy tongue, that slanders him with cowardice
How much, methinks, I could despise this man,
If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
I drew to part them: in the instant came
particulars of my life.
I do remember an apothecary,--
Fear not our care, sir.
Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking or
do these men play?
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings;
That Douglas and the English rebels met
Be more myself.
All the infections that the sun sucks up
Thou darest not, for thy own.
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
Sons, peace!
We cannot be here and there too. Cheerly, boys; be
Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait:
To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker
before us, instead of maces, will we ride through
Your last service was sufferance, 'twas not
Wine, wine, wine! What service
As if that whatsoever god who leads him
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Nay, I hear nothing: his mother and his wife
For God's sake, a pot of small ale.
counsellor, or no?
To lie that way thou go'st, not whence thou comest:
Exit Attendant
And so, my good lord mayor, we bid farewell.
Would ever with Marina be:
Your grant, or your denial, shall be mine:
He hath out-villained villany so far, that the
his discretion.
And after slew herself.
their game, and we will to our recreation.
Men of his way should be most liberal;
I would, false murderous coward, on thy knee
I must be round with him, now he comes from hunting.
This prison where I live unto the world:
Madam, here comes my lord.
By this day and this light, the fellow has mettle
That trick of state
If any come, Hector shall honour him;
Will not conclude their plotted tragedy.
Enter QUINCE, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
And never suffers matter of the world
As if the world were all dissolved to tears,
Live each of you the subjects to his hate,
you fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor
ACT I
Although apparent guilt be seen in them;
with the duke; what his valour, honesty, and
That makes the weight: had I great Juno's power,
This letter he early bid me give his father,
Made to write 'whore' upon? What committed!
Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond
The present money to discharge the Jew,
DUMB SHOW.
On yon proud man, should take it off again
In to our tent; the air is raw and cold.
We cannot without circumstance descry.
in love. If thou wilt, go with me to the alehouse;
We saw him at the opening of his tent:
The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber
well-a-day, we could scarce help ourselves.
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
For it was bad enough before their spite.
This label on my bosom; whose containing
On height of our displeasure: friend or brother,
And all the peers and nobles of the realm
the chronicles; we came in with Richard Conqueror.
Divinely bent to meditation;
That hadst a wife once call'd AEmilia
Which often, thus, correcting thy stout heart,
But makes it much more heavy. Hector's opinion
Far be it from my heart, the thought of it!
Enter BASSANIO, ANTONIO, GRATIANO, and their followers
And thank your lordship. By your leave, sweet ladies:
garments were come. She said upon a time--the
Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
thou alive?
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,
A foot of honour better than I was;
It is an honour 'longing to our house,
If it be not for some purpose of import,
The king's request that I would visit you;
Of the whole state: as, of late days, our neighbours,
myself and thee during my life; I for a valiant
All that's spoke is marr'd.
Are at our backs; and therefore hence amain.
Nay, let them follow:
Do on the oak, hive with one winter's brush
And not a maiden, as thou say'st he is.
unspotted soldiers: some peradventure have on them
hearken once again to the suit I made to thee?
Sweet lady, let me rake it from the earth.
But, stay; I smell a man of middle-earth.
Of all these learned men she was divorced,
Some nobler token I have kept apart
By the way we met
Charles, I will play no more tonight;
Till she herself confess it.
Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I
should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in
Your younger princely son; he, sir, was lapp'd
Or die a soldier, as I lived a king.
Exeunt, marching
DON
In the cradle where it lies.
Right, I mean you.
Or last, your fine Egyptian cookery
Who's that?
carries some stain of it: he is melancholy without
Who art thou? say, that I may honour thee.
Saints m your injuries, devils being offended,
Sir, I invite your highness and your train
Away! the foul fiend follows me!
Flourish. Exeunt
Both, both, my girl:
Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands:
By God, thou hast deceived me, Lancaster;
Now the good gods forbid
Thou on him leaning, and all Troy on thee,
Exeunt
The exile of her minion is too new;
Read not my blemishes in the world's report:
We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are
Save you, gentleman.
hath made him that gracious denial which he is most
Exit Servant
Else might the world convince of levity
To let this canker of our nature come
And so am I.
As if we were God's spies: and we'll wear out,
If wars, we are unable to resist.
This child was prisoner to the womb and is
Troy, yet upon his basis, had been down,
Why, that was when
Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us:
Enter SEBASTIAN
I stand here for him: what to him from England?
Met him in boroughs, cities, villages,
Out of those many register'd in promise,
The bloody office of his timeless end.
Aside to ARIEL
What she has done for me?
How! she is busy and she cannot come!
On your command.
For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
Whose envious gulf did swallow up his life.
Happily
O, he hath kept an evil diet long,
brain more than he has beat my bones: I will buy
Where will you find men worthy enough to present them?
Be of good comfort; for the great supply
Nor either cares for him.
The dam will wake; and, if she wind you once,
The voice of Cassio: Iago keeps his word.
If he suspect I may dishonour him:
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
And there will we be too, ere it be long,
Rome, especially his mother, may prevail with him.
Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet;
Better it were a brother died at once,
Let that go:
Thanks, gentle Somerset; sweet Oxford, thanks.
As gentle tell me, of what honour was
before the gods, I am not able to do,--the more
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
head, you would eat chickens i' the shell.
That tend upon my father?
Nay, take my life and all; pardon not that:
These present wars against the Ottomites.
He faints
Sheathes his sword
Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.
show you, which shall be yours in private. Your
And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind;
And show us to be watchers. Be not lost
She must, the saints must have her; yet a virgin,
This is a slight unmeritable man,
O, widow Dido! ay, widow Dido.
Re-enter CURIO and Clown
Think true love acted simple modesty.
Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume,
SCENE II. A room of state in the castle.
more choler.
To unloose this tied-up justice when you pleased:
All's well.
Call Philostrate.
Theretake it to you, trenchers, cups, and all;
have none.
Thither where more attends you, and you slander
Latin, Praeclarissimus filius noster Henricus, Rex
Near Birnam wood
Even with the bloody payment of your deaths:
Lie hid moe thousand deaths: yet death we fear,
Where fires thou find'st unraked and hearths unswept,
More of thee merited than a band of Clotens
And threat me I shall never come to bliss
Sir, I think
God help, poor souls, how idly do they talk!
The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
Ye must all see the queen, and she must thank ye,
My lord constable, the armour that I saw in your tent
My young remembrance cannot parallel
Thou bid'st me to my loss: for true to thee
And ring these fingers with thy household worms
Go you, Malvolio: if it be a suit from the count, I
Exit
Counterfeit? I lie, I am no counterfeit: to die,
You worthy tribunes,--
I am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me,
my shin th' other day with playing at sword and
Jesu bless him!
To make against your highness' claim to France
urine. Lechery, sir, it provokes, and unprovokes;
Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
upon the exploit themselves; which they shall have
That since the common men are now in action
'Justice, and your father's wrath, should he take me
good parts, a secret and villanous contriver against
I will embrace
Lay by these:--
As to put metal in restrained means
Extended or contracted all proportions
I know the knight is incensed against you, even to a
Indeed, my lord, I think it be two o'clock.
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law; And thou--
Exeunt
For both of you are birds of selfsame feather.
a youth is not for me, and he that is less than a
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me,
And hide the false seems true.
Then would I have his Harry, and he mine.
Madam, 'twas Ariadne passioning
For which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
Then how can it be said I am alone,
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
in, equivocator.
[Aside]  She needs not, when she knows it cowardice.
A true man or a thief that gallops so?
and the right wife; otherwise 'tis light, and not
Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
Enter, below, DIOMEDES
And even at hand a drum is ready braced
To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
Where no man never comes but that sad dog
black, this plaintiff here, the offender, did call
Will give thee time to leave our royal court,
and then rejourn the controversy of three pence to a
This house is little: the old man and his people
Give me your hand: have you no more to say?
Will make what's homely savoury: weariness
And break it with a deep-divorcing vow?
Had baked thy blood and made it heavy-thick,
heart; for, truly, I love none.
To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts
Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
But that I know love is begun by time;
cities, mutinies; in countries, discord; in
Of her contaminated carrion weight,
Have holp to make so portly.
apparent shame?
What companies are near: pray you, away;
Hath in her more destruction than thy sword,
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
Who waits there?
With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as
Now I perceive thou art a reverend father;
For I, too fond, might have prevented this.
He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical:
So two, together weeping, make one woe.
Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
being but half a fish and half a monster?
That you must lose a husband.
Son, I have overheard what hath passed between you
Yea, what he shall receive of us in duty
Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
Thou hadst not lived to kill a son of mine.
Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
And leave your jealousies too, I pray you.
Repose in fame; none basely slain in brawls:
Ay, I said so, sir:
ransom him to any French courtier for a new-devised
Now, if this suit lay in Bianco's power,
fairly guide them! especially to you, fair queen!
conclude he is in love.
them, some upon the debts they owe, some upon their
Sir, at the farthest for a week or two:
Enter Sir William LUCY
You have told me too many of him already, sir, if
'Tis now near night.
For Clarence is well-spoken, and perhaps
Gallow the very wanderers of the dark,
Talk not of dying: I am out of fear
Then whither goest? say, whither?
Most military sir, salutation.
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not:
An alarum. Enter TALBOT in an excursion
his name was Antigonus, a nobleman. But to make an
I warrant you, that man is not alive
Leave you! wherefore?
Let's whip these stragglers o'er the seas again;
What woman-post is this? hath she no husband
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
No, though he thought his accusation true.
To join with witches and the help of hell!
More than his reason. But 'tis a common proof,
When he was predominant.
The proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head
Which can interpret further: only, I say,
At whose request the king hath pardon'd them,
was in that credit with them at that time that I
Than death and honour. Let's to supper, come,
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege:
Our king and all his company.
You give him then the advantage.
called the Reply Churlish. If again 'it was not
Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus: 'twas
He merits well to have her, that doth seek her,
not to Leonato's?
Holla! stand there!
Exit Boy
And this, Lysander; this Demetrius is;
Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes;
About my stature; for at Pentecost,
Tongue far from heart--play with all virgins so:
Stay, on thy peril: I alone will go.
To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
I pray you, school yourself: but for your husband,
She hath not yet forgot him: some more time
Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come
Charles Duke of Orleans, nephew to the king;
Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.
A headless man! The garments of Posthumus!
What bastard doth not? Who will go with me?
I have loved thee,--
This was a merry message.
Have sold their lives unto the house of York;
Must pity drop upon her. Verily,
And speaking it, he wistly look'd on me,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Seeing the deed is meritorious,
To trash for over-topping, new created
Cause it to sound, beseech you.
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
And dip their napkins in his sacred blood,
Malvolio, Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore!
Come, let us go, and make thy father blind;
I warrant you, sir, let me alone.
I'll ha' thee burnt.
Nay, Cadwal, we must lay his head to the east;
Show me one scar character'd on thy skin:
Cog their hearts from them, and come home beloved
Upon his visage, and that all the walls
It is enough; I'll think upon the questions:
I know not, sir.
skill in grass.
against the softness of prosperity, with a discovery
Which I have wonder'd at. In hope it shall not,
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
By how much better than my word I am,
Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day
make thine own self the conquest of thy fury: wert
Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host,
Which you knew none of yours: what might you think?
Why, what canst thou tell, my boy?
straight arms, none.
With burden of our armour here we sweat.
O my lord,
To him that victory commands? or do you purpose
That lies on Dian's lap! thou visible god,
Or bobtail tike or trundle-tail,
Nor no such men as you have reckon'd up,
Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,
And tell me truly what thou think'st of him.
Bespoke him thus; 'Contaminated, base
We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again,
And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster,
My business, sir, is to the king.
And, in thy best consideration, cheque
I'll gild it with the happiest terms I have.
White-handed mistress, one sweet word with thee.
Caesar and Antony have ever won
O deadly gall, and theme of all our scorns!
No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance
But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel? What,
The cowslips tall her pensioners be:
Where is she and her son? tell me, who knows.
The one his purple blood right well resembles;
Tush!
True, my lord.
For what he has he gives, what thinks he shows;
No, sir; their hats are pluck'd about their ears,
If he had been as you and you as he,
the poet makes a most excellent description of it:
'Twould braid yourself too near for me to tell it.
Methought she purged the air of pestilence!
We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear,
Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies.
As would, but that they dare not, take our parts.
Of virtue for the name: but do not so:
It was myself, my brother and his son,
Methinks I so should term them, and the reverence
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
But my unspotted fire of love to you.
Hath she had any more than one husband?
A little proudly, and great deal misprizing
Fortune had left to both of us alike
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.
Keep peace, upon your lives:
Look you, these are the stops.
This is too long.
My father hath set guard to take my brother;
That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
He will be found like Brutus, like himself.
Stabb'd Julius Caesar; savage islanders
But here comes Antony.
Here comes Navarre.
Her brother, having both their country quitted
I read that I profess, the Art to Love.
Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock
And seized upon their towns and provinces.
Said I for this, the girl was like to him?
That would unseen be wicked? is this nothing?
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
Enter AGAMEMNON
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious;
Via! les eaux et la terre.
May, even in their wives' and children's sight,
For you serve knaves.
To have her honour true than your suspicion,
Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still;
For my authority bears of a credent bulk,
Tear me, take me, and the gods fall upon you!
Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
And, like a man to double business bound,
The time is unagreeable to this business:
Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
O, learn'd indeed were that astronomer
I never more will break an oath with thee.
Lavinia, come. Marcus, look to my house:
Controlling majesty: alack, alack, for woe,
Sir, to satisfy you in what I have said,
To 't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers.
Here, say we drink this standing-bowl of wine to him.
Henry the Seventh succeeding, truly pitying
And if thou canst awake by four o' the clock,
I hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any
I will be correspondent to command
Enter the DUCHESS in a white sheet, and a taper  burning in her hand; with STANLEY, the Sheriff, and Officers
I am not such a truant since my coming,
Nearer in bloody thoughts, but not in blood,
A subtle traitor needs no sophister.
If you would seek us,
Here, here! for heaven's sake, help me!
Is likely to beget more conquerors,
'Twixt you there's difference; but the fall of either
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he
Driving back shadows over louring hills:
Dolabella!
Yes, captain; but with this acknowledgement,
What! did my brother Henry spend his youth,
King Malchus of Arabia; King of Pont;
Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers;
To be high-steward; next, the Duke of Norfolk,
What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with,
Is it upon record, or else reported
Wound it with sighing, girl, kill it with groans;
and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because
The worthiest of them tell me name by name;
Are there no other tokens
must die. Come, headsman, off with his head.
Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
Let us not wrangle: bid them move away;
This is the day of doom for Bassianus:
And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
please all.'
Your safety manifested.
Before I speak, too threateningly replies:
Upon my body with their hellish charms?
As doth a ruler with unlawful oaths;
Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard:
Lend favourable ears to our request;
When daffodils begin to peer,
And grows to something of great constancy;
Laid any scruple in your way, which might
I do beg your good will in this case.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
alehouse of my lady's house, that ye squeak out your
Well may you prosper!
Call thyself sister, sweet, for I am thee.
And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us:
I know that; but I would have thee hence, and here again.
Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness:
My studied purposes requite; which went
with a whoo-bub against his daughter and the king's
Did not I say he would work it out? the cur is
If you offend him, I for him defy you.
One, certes, that promises no element
Now make your choice.
You see what mischief and what murder too
Heavens make our presence and our practises
Henry the Fourth, grandfather to this king,
I wrote him Imogen was slain: 'tis strange:
defend thee.'
in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread.
But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah;
What, none?
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
Yet such is now the duke's condition
Why then, by God--
It may be I shall otherwise bethink me.
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER, attended
Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard:'
Come, one for me.
Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
hand, de fingres, et de nails.
Shall I send to thee?
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon; his
to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
I thank you, good friend Lucio.
During whose reign the Percies of the north,
Do you think, my lords,
The civil citizens kneading up the honey,
And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs,
Whip me? No, no; let carman whip his jade:
The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
If virtue's gloss will stain with any soil,
Hark what thou else shalt do me.
Stops on a sudden, looks upon the ground,
Were it not pity that this goodly boy
Noble madam,
Did hold his eyes lock'd in her crystal looks.
No.
Things to strike honour sad. Bid him recount
Because that John hath made his peace with Rome?
And teaches me to kill or hang myself:
Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange and frown:
Brought hither Henry Hereford thy bold son,
Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,
His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear
Anointed, I implore so much expense of thy royal
Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love
The folded meaning of your words' deceit.
Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon, I
Did you too much disquiet: for that you must
Though age from folly could not give me freedom,
ANTIPHOLUS
I take it up; and by that sword I swear
'One fair daughter and no more,
and too much too.
But the plain single vow that is vow'd true.
Therefore thy threatening colours now wind up;
for the liquor is not earthly.
With shunless destiny; aidless came off,
To an infected jelly and my name
Unto our gentle senses.
'Tis York that hath more reason for his death.
And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
Show me how, good father.
Ho, gentlemen! my lord calls.
lute-case, bore it twelve leagues, and sold it for
I am alone the villain of the earth,
Yes, one, and in this manner. He was to imagine me
Malevolent to you in all aspects;
Let go, slave, or thou diest!
What's the matter?
me. Now is the Count Rousillon a widower: his vows
Alas, alas!
At a word, I am not.
I gave it freely ever; and there's none
I play'd the fool, it was my negligence,
When all that is within him does condemn
I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
casket, you should refuse to perform your father's
'Pless you from his mercy sake, all of you!
The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted
They may break his foaming courser's back,
Which some call nature's bastards: of that kind
How dare the plants look up to heaven, from whence
Enter soldiers, with PRINCE EDWARD
I'll murder all his wardrobe, piece by piece,
And come, young Cato; let us to the field.
[Aside to CARDINAL WOLSEY]
Now for our mountain sport: up to yond hill;
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
what a' will say.
Call all your tribes together, praise the gods,
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
Empties itself, as doth an inland brook
And drown themselves in riot! Itches, blains,
make me tell them how much I lack of a man.
And charged him with a thousand marks in gold,
For once the eagle England being in prey,
That such a slave as this should wear a sword,
If he do, the rich shall have more.
What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?
And ere that we will suffer such a prince,
So his mind cankers. I will plague them all,
merry? shall we have a play extempore?
Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains:
your swag-bellied Hollander--Drink, ho!--are nothing
how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his
That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,
Come, woo me, woo me, for now I am in a holiday
Well, do you so; let not me take him, then;
Enter HELENA
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him;
It is: and lo, where youthful Edward comes!
May all to Athens back again repair
Which would be planted newly with the time,
God save your majesty! and well met, gentlemen:
Either consent to pay this sum for me
For then, and not till then, he felt himself,
Ha, ha, ha!
Where is Lord Stanley quarter'd, dost thou know?
For this damsel, I must keep her at the park: she
Enter two Senators and a Messenger
Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward!
Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
Though you were born in Rome:' his bloody brow
keep it in. I heard you were saucy at my gates,
Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish
The knowledge of themselves.
More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child
Sweet York, be patient. Hear me, gentle liege.
And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
which may, without contradiction, suffer the report.
Ever shall be fortunate.
With my more noble meaning, not a man
When you do find him, or alive or dead,
Here's the midwife's name to't, one Mistress
Do so;
Exeunt
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Kneel'd at my feet, and bade me be advised
together and thrown over the shoulders like an
Haled out to murder: myself on every post
Do now attend the queen? Since they did plot
Stands in worse case of woe.
Exit
Think me for the man I am, necessity
And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove,
My soul shall thine keep company to heaven;
he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk: he
For comfort is too far for us to expect.
And, I'll warrant her, fun of game.
course of gratitude, but be a diligent follower of
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
But then up farther, and as for as Rome;
I do never use it.
As send precepts to the leviathan
Untutor'd lad, thou art too malapert.
Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight
words are grown so false, I am loath to prove
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
drudge: he that comforts my wife is the cherisher
I tell thee, Pole, when in the city Tours
to Sir Toby.
The darnel, hemlock and rank fumitory
With a sweet fellow to't?
So let them have their answers every one:
For this time will I take my leave, my lord.
With speedy help doth lend redress.'
Entreat some power to change this currish Jew.
The blood of malice in a vein of league,
Go, give 'em welcome; you can speak the French tongue;
The inclining Desdemona to subdue
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
An if it please thee! why, assure thee, Lucius,
And by still practise learn to know thy meaning.
And the strong course of my authority
Be rein'd again to temperance; then he speaks
her the infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God
The gods preserve our noble tribunes! Come.
And thou shalt bear it: wilt thou, Silvius?
Who sued to me for him? who, in my rage,
Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders,
thank him, makes no stranger of me; we are familiar at first.
Reads
sayest thou that house is dark?
What should they grant? what makes this pretty
Ere clean it o'erthrow nature, makes it valiant,
That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire
to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
He dares not come there for the candle; for, you
offends me,--
Not yet.
So 'tis our will he should.
fronts encountering,
We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece.
And not to grace an awful princely sceptre.
A wither'd branch, that's only green at top;
If knowledge be the mark, to know thee shall suffice;
Could neither graze nor pierce?
The time right deadly; I beseech you, go.
brother Troilus went not?
Enter KING, HELENA, and Attendants. LAFEU and PAROLLES retire
What man thou art.
as two and fifty horses: why, nothing comes amiss,
not heard of the proclamation, have you?
Alas, my lord, hang me, if ever I spake the words.
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet:
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:
But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
And smelt so? pah!
This avarice
you.
and so there is, but it lies as coldly in him as fire
Though written in our flesh, we shall remember
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
That it may be this day read over in Paul's.
on thee, rather than have these off.
Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
Marcus Andronicus, so I do ally
SCENE I. Before PAGE'S house.
What worser place can I beg in your love,--
Gloucestershire.
Ay, every inch a king:
Thou thy worldly task hast done,
would send me word, he cut it to please himself:
If you shall prove
One word, good friend. Lucio, a word with you.
Farewell!
On him I lay what you would lay on me,
your guard; for your opposite hath in him what
A voluntary zeal and an unurged faith
O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread,
If he for gold will give us any food:
Let us not leave him out.
And entertain'd 'em deeply in her heart.
Murder in healing wounds: then, noble partners,
Come on, I say; and first begin with her.
And give them life whom hunger starved half dead.
And princes not doin g so are like to gnats,
Enter BARNARDINE
Than drink so much in one.
Whate'er falls more. We must to horse again.
if matters should be looked into, for their own
shoulders; no sighs but of my breathing; no tears
No? Come, brother; away! I will be heard.
And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York.
Have patience, gentle Julia.
Doth Silvia know that I am banished?
That dog, that had his teeth before his eyes,
I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please
And like rich hangings in a homely house,
Master Malvolio?
The heart that conn'd them.
your honour.
Upon my knees, what doth your speech import?
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,
Cries out upon the name of Salisbury!
be slow in words is a woman's only virtue: I pray
The Duke of Norfolk, sprightfully and bold,
Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome: we would
In peace, and part this body and my soul
SCENE VII. Baynard's Castle.
and blue list; an old hat and 'the humour of forty
Then sigh not so, but let them go,
Sneak not away, sir; for the friar and you
Exeunt MARK ANTONY, QUEEN CLEOPATRA, and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
But now, my lord.
Both what by sea and land I can be able
Go tell their general we attend him here,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
A statelier pyramis to her I'll rear
In the disposing of new dignities.
What, doth she swoon? use means for her recovery.
I have one word to say to you: look you, my good lord,
Have chid me from the battle; swearing both
In the Rialto you have rated me
What more remains?
Young Romeo is it?
That I stand up, and have ingenious feeling
Exeunt
Of female favour, and bestows himself
Enter BERTRAM and DIANA
Then what should war be? This fell whore of thine
Yet may he live awhile; and, it may be,
Our knees shall kneel till to the ground they grow:
Be resident in men like one another
glad of it.
Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths,
For every trifle are they set upon me;
I did not, sir:
ANTIPHOLUS
better assurance, tell them that I, Pyramus, am not
I know not, an't like you.
That any harm should stain so fair a show!
Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state
Speak, man.
So are we Caesar's friends, that have abridged
And therefore take this compact of a truce,
Yond crickets shall not hear it.
The borrow of a week. When at Bohemia
Change you, madam?
I do not know you so good a man as myself: so
youth, to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the
I'll give you a verse to this note that I made
If 'gainst yourself you be incensed, we'll put you,
And gentlewomen wear such caps as these
have been sharp and sententious; pleasant without
lackey and under that habit play the knave with him.
Here where we are.
So your desires are yours.
O fairest beauty, do not fear nor fly!
She loves me, sure; the cunning of her passion
a postmaster's boy.
for you; and I pray you to serve Got, and keep you
Although against her will, as it appears
Again in pity of my hard distress
Gentles, do not reprehend:
What news abroad i' the world?
their worships to think it was his infirmity. Three
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
and so sweet a breath to sing, as the fool has. In
Enter IAGO
And now, to soothe your forgery and his,
You are too officious
A dangerous law against gentility!
As by his smoothed brows it doth appear:
Write up his title with usurping blood.
Or strange, or self-affected!
Say now, whose suit is he arrested at?
ACT V
I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
entrenched it: say to him, I live; and observe his
Help, help, ho!
How now, sir! have you that I sent you for?
Our hope in him is dead: let us return,
In fine, redeem'd I was as I desired.
Shall this fellow live?
My worthy friends, will you draw near?
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry,
Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
Betwixt the wind and his nobility.
I say, a moving grove.
Is else devoted, I am but a shadow;
And being once subdued in armed tail,
hereafter, which shall then have no power to stand
Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,
And I am sent to tell his majesty
I read as much as from the rattling tongue
Son to the queen, after his own report;
A league below the city; and from thence,
Produce the grand sum of his sins, the articles
I once did lend my body for his wealth;
All disconsolate,
A little from this ground.
Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge
Think you a little din can daunt mine ears?
Call up her father,
but a kind of hard conscience, to offer to counsel
And so he vanish'd: then came wandering by
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
That excellent complexion, which did steal
In very good time: speak not you to him till we
As ours by murder, to make him a king!
A greater gift than that I'll give my cousin.
ACT V
Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred;
My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is changed:
He is your husband on a pre-contract:
His judgment too.
ANTIPHOLUS
that should water this sorrow.
I'll tear her all to pieces.
Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
I told you what would come of this: beseech you,
Than the rebuke you give it.
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
Enter a Messenger
O, who can hold a fire in his hand
What in the contrary?
A second time do such a courtesy.
lords: they have acquainted me with their
against it with my life.
If he be taken, he shall never more
bastard children than war's a destroyer of men.
Where--O for pity!--we shall much disgrace
Had the fore-hand and vantage of a king.
Yes, madam, and moreover
Fell Warwick's brother and by that our foe.
But if she cannot love you, sir?
Are you so desperate grown, to threat your friends?
O pardonnez moi!
not take too much for him; he shall pay for him that
Then, as you are as virtuous as fair,
Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
Poor sick Fidele!
sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter:
I will, my lord.
Even then this forked plague is fated to us
Say that I slew them not?
He thanks your grace; names himself Pericles,
king; and take vanity the puppet's part against the
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
SCENE VIII. London. The palace.
Acknowledge then the king, and let me in.
Which for Antenor we deliver you:
He speaks to me. I am your master, Dromio:
And hale him hither.
I thank you: I am not of many words, but I thank
I give him his answer?
To save my boy, to nourish and bring him up;
Lord, how we lose our pains!
Of such as your oppression feeds upon,
Enter ALCIBIADES, with Attendants
There's fresher air, my lord,
Enter ROSALIND for Ganymede, CELIA for Aliena, and TOUCHSTONE
Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
be seen through the lion's neck: and he himself
[Within]  Your wife, sir knave! go get you from the door.
To some forlorn and naked hermitage,
La you, an you speak ill of the devil, how he takes
And how does good Master Fenton? Pray you, a word with you.
Commend a dear thing to you. There is division,
My Lord of Suffolk, say, is this the guise,
Exeunt
'Tis well I am found by you.
And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.
I know the shape of's leg: this is his hand;
Exit DESDEMONA
Why, man, why?
A thousand souls to death and deadly night.
Aside
The sharded beetle in a safer hold
The duke's in council and your noble self,
There is no other way but to tell the king
Of their afflictions, and shall not myself,
A due sincerity govern'd his deeds,
Since when I have been debtor to you for courtesies,
though not personal, have been royally attorneyed
My lord, will't please you to fall to?
Moon and stars!
My lord, there are certain nobles of the senate
A man of fire-new words, fashion's own knight.
Did he confess it?
Led him, begg'd for him, saved him from despair;
And I for Rosalind.
And many giddy people flock to him.
Trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY V, SCROOP, CAMBRIDGE, GREY, and Attendants
I would not for the world they saw thee here.
Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
A better speech was never spoke before;
We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.
Quick, come!
Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor
Might corrupt minds procure knaves as corrupt
Bestow your counsels on me: she now begs,
Upon this coast, I warrant you.
calamity, so beauty's a flower. The lady bade take
Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever.
Follow me, soldiers: we'll devise a mean
Here in the lobby.
Die of this folly!
I know not whether to depart in silence,
a villain that says such a father begot villains.
Wherein my sword had not impressure made
With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March,
Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense,
Alas, I know not; how gets the tide in?
To torture thee the more, being what thou art.
access to you.
O my lord,
And leap for joy, though they are lame with blows:
O heavenly powers, restore him!
SCENE III. The same. Before the gates.
From our companion thrown into his grave,
Be Alcibiades your plague, you his,
you first,
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
sent to the deputy.
I know your lady does not love her husband;
For Edward my son, which was Prince of Wales,
A halter gratis; nothing else, for God's sake.
Mine honour keeps the weather of my fate:
Go to, then; you come to me, and you say
in tears! The great dignity that his valour hath
I have read three hours then: mine eyes are weak:
Stands on the hourly thought.
Prompted you in the ebb of your estate
And though I have for barbarism spoke more
Is left to govern. Bear you it in mind,
Hang upon his pent-house lid;
Within these ten days if that thou be'st found
And not be tied unto his brother's will.
Deposed his nephew Richard, Edward's son,
Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
And make the Douglas' son your only mean
With a disdainful youth: anoint his eyes;
SCENE I. Rome. A public place.
A lying trophy, and as oft is dumb
this sister of mine do with rice? But my father
And be not proud: though all the world could see,
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
To lose't or give't away were such perdition
Peace, peace, and give experience tongue.
Ay, my good lord.
What are they? let us know.
Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news?
My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase,
As he was born. The king he takes the babe
There's none but asses will be bridled so.
The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
Will crowd a feeble man almost to death:
We will attend to neither.
Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love:
Worse than a theft, no less than a traducement,
Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself
Exit
The very minute bids thee ope thine ear;
Why, Jessica!
Out upon it, old carrion! rebels it at these years?
circumstance: that which you hear you'll swear you
They would be better, if well followed.
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
And give it way: I know thou canst not choose.
If He, which is the top of judgment, should
Nor be grieved: she is of good esteem,
camest thou to be the siege of this moon-calf? can
thy fat woman. Let her descend, bully, let her
And tell him where I stay: give the like notice
You must have patience, madam.
But weakly guarded, where the breach was made.
for you! here's no vanity! I am as hot as moulten
As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
He whom my father named? your Edgar?
To tell, he longs to see his son, were strong:
SCENE I. Before Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
And would not be awaked.
Were brass impregnable, and humour'd thus
Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me:
measured swords and parted.
should speak truth of it: here it is, and all that
So strange, outrageous, and so variable,
Well, we shall then know more; and Buckingham
Open the door, or I will break it open.
But Antonio is certainly undone.
To the sweet glances of thy honour'd love,
How oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root!
Shall I do any good, thinkest thou? shall I not lose my suit?
Unless you call it good to pity him,
say, if he would incline to the people, there was
The pleasure that some fathers feed upon,
Why stand'st thou still, and go'st not to the duke?
on. Jove and my stars be praised! Here is yet a
I' the posture of a whore.
Your eyes drop millstones, when fools' eyes drop tears:
To-morrow I intend to hunt again.
Dies
Which sometime they have used with fearful flight,
were enriched with any other injuries but these, I
But fly you must; uncurable discomfit
He's discontented.
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
And with thy weapon nothing darest perform!
Prithee, have done;
Nay, that's certain: but yet the pity of it, Iago!
bell-wether; next, to be compassed, like a good
Of a rude stream, that must for ever hide me.
Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,
Nothing, but our undertakings; when we vow to weep
By some illusion see thou bring her here:
From where you do remain let paper show.
Chain mine arm'd neck; leap thou, attire and all,
O, say so, and so be!
You are deceived, my lord; she never saw it:
She knew her distance and did angle for me,
Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and
King, be thy thoughts imperious, like thy name.
Himself to Rome; his spirit is come in,
To get his place and to plume up my will
Our messenger Chatillon is arrived!
In sight of England and her lordly peers,
But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
They love and dote on; call him bounteous Buckingham,
Peace, fool! I have not done.
The king hath dispossess'd himself of us:
Even to my wish: I have a letter from her
Christendom. If thou hadst been born blind, thou
Which not to have done I think had been in me
nothing, for we may live to have need of such a
Must be the scene of mirth; to cough and spit,
Such as it is, being tender, raw and young:
One drunkard loves another of the name.
Swear not by time to come; for that thou hast
Exit SCARUS
Against the Capitol I met a lion,
Of things to come at large. It is supposed
That is a good William. What is he, William, that
Exeunt Lords
The good patricians must be visited;
Than an unstringed viol or a harp,
You come to take your stand here, and behold
Broke oath on oath, committed wrong on wrong,
Have lost, or do not learn for want of time,
To him from whom you brought them.
SCENE III. A road near the Shepherd's cottage.
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
You are old enough now, and yet, methinks, you lose.
Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd,
If not, how best to bear it.
Within a quarter of an hour.
The mystery of your loneliness, and find
That makes the senate ugly.
To have the heir of the Lord Hungerford.
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
shall be humble. Few words to fair faith: Troilus
Live, like Diana's priest, betwixt cold sheets,
To make distinction: provide this messenger:
Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour
This is a riddling merchant for the nonce;
Doubled with thanks and service, from whose help
Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison;
We do, and vow to heaven and to his highness,
'Sicinius!' 'Brutus!' 'Coriolanus!' 'Citizens!'
that? away!
Why do you send so thick?
Exit Servant
Elizabeth.
I would have been much more a fresher man,
Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions
Of richest eyes, whose words all ears took captive,
Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
not prophesy so.
O, sir, sir, sir,
Giving the crown
And violation of all faith and troth
while 'tis vendible; answer the time of request.
ALONSO sleeps. Exit ARIEL
O fool! fool! fool!
With one man beckon'd from the rest below,
Covering discretion with a coat of folly;
Die when you will, a smock shall be your shroud.
How Thaliard came full bent with sin
Shall I have justice? what says Jupiter?
As if the entertainment in our court
For shame, come down: he made thee Duke of York.
I claimed the crown, had issue, Philippe, a daughter,
I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,
The throstle with his note so true,
And dreadful objects so familiar
I long till Edward fall by war's mischance,
of either's moiety.
It is Lord Angelo.
Exeunt
What watchful cares do interpose themselves
That he's a made-up villain.
We have done our course; there's money for your pains:
Exeunt
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where is he? call him hither.
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
Enter ALCIBIADES, with drum and fife, in warlike manner; PHRYNIA and TIMANDRA
No had, my lord! why, did you not provoke me?
He's coming, madam; I hear him.
wisest. He shall taste of my bottle: if he have
Touching that point.
Of easy ways to die. Take up her bed;
Even with the speediest expedition
You shall be more beloving than beloved.
Spies of the Volsces
France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away?
And try your hap against the Irishmen?
It could not move thus.
Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
Though ne'er so black, say they have angels' faces.
As badness would desire.
Royal wench!
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
which we being members, should bring ourselves to be
He came not back: he is or ta'en or slain.
Even to the hall, to hear what shall become
not my lord protector.
Fled from her wish and yet said 'Now I may,'
chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby says the story, did
O'ercome with moss and baleful mistletoe:
We sympathize: Jove, let AEneas live,
Can change their moons and bring their times about
There's law and warrant, lady, for my curse.
And thou, thrice-crowned queen of night, survey
and hit that woman; who cried out 'Clubs!' when I
That thou wilt never render to me more!
Lest he should help his father.
But were the day come, I should wish it dark,
Very nobly
And Richard falls in height of all his pride.
Puff'd his own brother:--and can he be angry?
Speak truly, on thy knighthood and thy oath;
Here is your servant. How now, sir! What news?
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great
A march. Enter EDWARD, RICHARD, and their power
joints of every thing, but everything so out of joint
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
Were, as he says, not with such strength denied
And her to incest did provoke:
Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn
Knocking within
Nor I from Troy come not to whisper him:
to her! If ever I was respected with her, or she
at no man's jests, eat when I have stomach and wait
Good friend, go to him; for, by this light of heaven,
Ergo I come with this apology.
An if I could, what should I get therefore?
You have too courtly a wit for me: I'll rest.
In faith, too much;
Exit
Our services awhile; but my full heart
And even with this I lost fair England's view
Exeunt Lords
But not approach'd.
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties
That have by marriage made thy daughter mine,
It may be good: pride hath no other glass
Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master
Come, let them be opinioned.
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
No, no: alack,
they dare not fight with me, because of the queen my
Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say
Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
Or groan for love? or spend a minute's time
Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
When we shall hap to give 't them.
Not so, my lord; the gods of Rome forfend
Nay, I know not.
Making another head to fight again.
professed apprehension?
Rome and her rats are at the point of battle;
Who lets go by no vantages that may
Whereof I know you are fraught; and put away
It grieves his highness: good my lords, be friends.
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
If my cap would buy a halter:
Diana's rangers false themselves, yield up
constant being won: they are burs, I can tell you;
Of death or death's hand for this one-half year.
This is a thing
Blind sight, dead life, poor mortal living ghost,
Before the kings and queens of France.
to find myself fobbed in it.
A woman well-reputed, Cato's daughter.
And so it is received. Now, pious sir,
'The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man
Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt.
I prithee, grieve, to make me merry, York.
Reply, reply.
We thank you both: yet one but flatters us,
When thou wakest,
Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles;
I'll crop, to make a garland for my head.
You orphan heirs of fixed destiny,
O, is it so? But why commands the king
Thou lay'st in every gash that love hath given me
To cheque his reign, but they will cherish it;
Very well, sir; proceed.
Upon  a knife, 'Love me, and leave me not.'
Since that respects of fortune are his love,
Peace be to France, if France in peace permit
Turn out that eyeless villain; throw this slave
My heart hath melted at a lady's tears,
Help, master, help! here's a fish hangs in the net,
Good lord chamberlain,
thee a lie, spit in my face, call me horse. Thou
she grew round-wombed, and had, indeed, sir, a son
This is not hunters' language: he that strikes
Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks:
What stuff 'tis made of, whereof it is born,
An hour before I came, the duchess died.
How my achievements mock me!
Were he not proud, we all should share with him:
leave them: and, sirrah, I have cases of buckram
'Twas but a bolt of nothing, shot at nothing,
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
I know thee well;
The holding.
Toad!
To hear a night-shriek; and my fell of hair
Thanks, gentle sir.
All flaxen was his poll:
dog's-leather of.
Through which our policy must make a breach:
Dies
My friends,--
Beneath abhorring. What would you have, you curs,
Counsel o' the war, but at his nurse's tears
To compass wonders but by help of devils.
On my particular. Prepared I was not
The qualities of people. Come, my queen;
Seems to flow from him! How, i' the name of thrift,
As if our hands, our sides, voices and minds,
She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?
And carriage of the article design'd,
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
So high above his limits swells the rage
Draw near them then in being merciful:
If ever I remember to be holy,
And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool.
Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding!
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
Well, follow me, my masters, you shall have your
'Tis to his virtue a just equinox,
And an ill singer, my lord.
Exeunt HERO and URSULA
I your lady, Sir John! alas, I should be a pitiful lady!
I will discharge thee.
Are as the time is: to be tender-minded
Only my blood speaks to you in my veins;
Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale, by
I never loved my brother in my life.
'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night:
Have patience, noble duke; I may not open;
Horns within
With some few private friends upon this coast.
ANTENOR passes
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss,
Measure for measure must be answered.
forbearance till the spied of his rage goes
How happy then were my ensuing death!
But rather one that smiles and still invites
O, upon my knee,
beside the Tyrian vessel.
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's
Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:
husband'? None, I think, and it be the right husband
When the most mighty gods by tokens send
crowns of the king carrying my head to him: but
I never gave it him: send for him hither;
One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her
beyond Eton, they threw me off from behind one of
The prime man of the state? I pray you, tell me,
Though standing naked on a mountain top,
I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, though
That purpose merriment. But fare you well:
Well, my good lord, I have inform'd them so.
Saddle white Surrey for the field to-morrow.
But stay thee, 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
call for him at supper, you will make his excuse.
What! have I twice said well? when was't before?
neck i' the combat, he'll break 't himself in
What a damned Epicurean rascal is this! My heart is
That hath a stomach; and such a one that dare
Nor shall not, if I do as I intend.
raised the wall and houses too.
Since the physician at your father's died?
With what I get, I mean; and so do they.
Bear the boy hence; he shall not come about her;
man, and signifies love.
bibble babble.
And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change;
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and LEONATO
welcome to Elsinore.
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Peace, Kent!
de nails, de arma, de bilbow.
If not, why cease you till you are so?
Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio!
And never shall it more be gracious.
We never valued this poor seat of England;
How now, my lord! what hap? what hope of good?
Let but the commons hear this testament--
Exit
Stands in attainder of eternal shame:
Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave,
Upon his bad life to make all this good,
This Ipswich fellow's insolence; or proclaim
own appointment; even as you came in to me, her
Drown'd, drown'd.
No, uncle; but our crosses on the way
I am your debtor, claim it when 'tis due.
Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
By so receiving a dishonour'd life
Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:
A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again
If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword,
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your
To one or two of these!
Sent by a consul to me, should not sooner
They crave to be demanded. Who is this
Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard;
Let's hence, and hear
Exeunt SHALLOW, SLENDER, PAGE, and Host
My mind as generous, and my shape as true,
How fares the prince?
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
Be fear'd of doing harm: make your own purpose,
Am something nearer.
Master lieutenant, pray you, by your leave,
That if our queen and this young prince agree,
To free King Henry from imprisonment
Come, let's away.
A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
And presently all humbled kiss the rod!
He that dies pays all debts: I defy thee. Mercy upon us!
I go. Come, Nell, thou wilt ride with us?
My love is most immaculate white and red.
Then I will give you the serving-creature.
man, I think, that shall set them in present action.
By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
'Faith, the cry goes that you shall marry her.
What ring was yours, I pray you?
tinkers at this time of night? Do ye make an
Shall I stay here to do't?  no, no, although
If you desire to know the certainty
Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart,
My brother did love Juliet,
By hers and mine adultery. He, true knight,
they would have drowned a blind bitch's puppies,
of shame and iniquity. O, you have heard something
Shed thou no blood, nor cut thou less nor more
This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.
Now Antony must leave her utterly.
I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next,
you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and
He would himself have been a soldier.
That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
[Aside]  Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
Sleep when he wakes and creep into the jaundice
Bootless is flight, they follow us with wings;
O, Signieur Dew should be a gentleman:
Liker in feature to his father Geffrey
Dies
Even so, or with much more contempt, men's eyes
offence gracious, though few have the grace to do it.
All the expected good we're like to hear
These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
That e'er the sun shone bright on.
That go before it.
And would you not do much to do them good?
What?
'Tis Caesar that you mean; is it not, Cassius?
down; my husband will come into the chamber.
Let me bid you welcome, my lord: being reconciled to
How now! is Somerset at liberty?
I think it be two o'clock.
All's true that is mistrusted: that false villain
As true hearts cannot bear.
To number Ave-Maries on his beads;
if in our youths we could pick up some pretty
Thou art not here: murder is thy alms-deed;
By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
No, no; and therefore we'll have his head.
Both taxing me and gaging me to keep
The one of them contains my picture, prince:
your honour,
As this ingrate and canker'd Bolingbroke.
Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world,
That womanhood denies my tongue to tell:
To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?
Stand forth, and with bold spirit relate what you,
magistrates.
Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for
How does your grace?
ANTIPHOLUS
For he is fierce and cannot brook hard language.
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Cheerly to sea; the signs of war advance:
I hold you as a thing ensky'd and sainted.
To dinner presently.
I never knew
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
SCENE IX. The Roman camp.
Hum!
The actors are come hither, my lord.
And buried, gentle Tyrrel?
And thereof came it that the man was mad.
Now for the counsel of my son and queen!
And two Northumberlands; two braver men
To want the bridegroom when the priest attends
ANTIPHOLUS
upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world. This
These cates resist me, she but thought upon.
Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.
I scorn thy meat; 'twould choke me, for I should
Comfort, my liege; remember who you are.
Whose state so many had the managing,
Where all those pleasures live that art would
Exit
Peace, villain, peace!'--even thus he rates
Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind!
And yet shalt thou be safe? such safety finds
The Conspirators draw, and kill CORIOLANUS: AUFIDIUS stands on his body
Exit
Fulvia perchance is angry; or, who knows
To venge me as I may and to put forth
letter: but let thine inherit first; for, I
more approbation than ever proof itself would have
None, but to desire your good company.
But, by your favour,
[Aside]  The devil speaks in him.
Yet, notwithstanding such a strait edict,
With variable complexions, all agreeing
'Tis, 'tis his fortune.
Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' the moon;
I'll have thy head for this thy traitor's speech.
I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much; my name is Brook.
Arise, and take place by us: half your suit
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
Kill, kill, kill, kill, kill him!
Seal up your lips, and give no words but mum:
ANTIPHOLUS
What is 'lapis,' William?
So please your majesty,
O, name him not: let us not break with him;
monarch? I should venture purgatory for't.
So God help Warwick, as he loves the land,
As ignorant as dirt! thou hast done a deed--
Their bodies, even to loathing; for they so stunk,
Yes, it is apparel.
That we for thee may glorify the Lord.
Enter STANLEY
Good my lord, be good to me; your honour is accounted
Is Lewis so brave? belike he thinks me Henry.
So awake when I am gone;
That done, laugh well at me.
Alas! sir, it is worse for me than so;
If not, when you have stomachs.
Knit earth and heaven together!
What thou wilt,
Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll
Against my kindred, brothers, and myself,
Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is;
i' the morn; I'll call you at your house: give
you, as you shall desire in a summer's day. Here is
Exit
To see her noble lord restored to health,
I thank you, sir.
Re-enter FERDINAND, BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in their proper habits
Witness that here Iago doth give up
I brought high Hereford, if you call him so,
What mean you, sir?
Know then, my name is Douglas;
Exit ROMEO
How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock? and
To that which thou shalt hear of me anon.
My lords, we were forewarned of your coming,
Making you ever better than his praise
Do you perceive in all this noble company
Which once thou sworest was worth the looking on;
And make them keep their caves: since I was man,
Stands in some rank of praise.
Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
A man is well holp up that trusts to you:
My art is not past power nor you past cure.
Cleopatra!
Sir John, I prithee, leave the prince and me alone:
Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. What
I do forswear them; and I here protest,
The other way's a Mars. Bid you Alexas
many I have beheld. I could not but believe she
Enter RATCLIFF, with halberds, carrying RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN to death
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, CLIFFORD, and WESTMORELAND
SCENE III. The same. Before the palace.
From whence you have them. You are jealous now
So said, so done, is well.
And raught not to five weeks when he came to
Upon his death, unto the gentleman
Thou hast thine own form.
heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
odds with his own gravity and patience that ever you
I can hardly believe that, since you know not what
And ye that on the sands with printless foot
This staff of honour raught, there let it stand
Romans, countrymen, and lovers! hear me for my
Pray heaven, he sound not my disgrace! For certain,
Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do.
Is yond despised and ruinous man my lord?
instrument and play false strains upon thee! not to
After the taste of much correction.
Upon the love you bear me, get you in.
Anger's my meat; I sup upon myself,
before to make a fire, and they are coming after to
what's the matter?
But is all this for your father?
So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim.
the fleet: I would he had boarded me.
Ay, there's the point: as--to be bold with you--
Mark, Jack.
preposterous estate as we are.
To your most gracious hands, that are the substance
Madam, he will; I know't.
And little recks to find the way to heaven
not show itself modest enough without a badge of
A sweet Athenian lady is in love
are, or I will scarce think you have swam in a
How now! what's the matter?
Divers and dangerous; which are heresies,
In execution.
Undraws the curtains
Devised impeachments to imprison him :
him.
To him and to his heirs; namely, the crown
Fear me not, man; I will not break away:
Thou liest.
Insolent villain!
The dukedom yet unbow'd--alas, poor Milan!--
In God's name, lead; your king's name be obey'd:
Where is it?
Yes, an't please you, sir.
evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this marriage?
persuasion.
The parts and graces of the wrestler
Thersites!
In bloody field,
Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
That nature, being sick of man's unkindness,
Was to be gone from Athens, where we might,
Exit
Withdraw, my lord; I'll help you to a horse.
Speak not so loud.
words to the Lord Lysimachus.
Thou art an exile, and thou must not stay:
Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my
When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.
I shall be much bound to you for't: I am one that
There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When
Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
holily in their beds.
By all that's holy, he had better starve
Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
But let her live.
DON
Who, all for want of pruning, with intrusion
State holy or unhallow'd, what of that?
That strew the green lap of the new come spring?
And how long is that, think you?
Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild;
That we have had no time to move our daughter:
'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord:
Are wreck'd three nights ago on Goodwin Sands.
The trumpet sounds retreat; the day is ours.
I'll call for pen and ink, and write my mind.
'Tis known, Achilles, that you are in love
O sir, it is better to be brief than tedious. Show
Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain.
SCENE V. Another part of the plains.
Came not my friend nor I.
shalt enjoy her; therefore make money. A pox of
Hoodman comes! Portotartarosa
Then, good my liege, let me have what is mine,
Devise the fittest time and safest way
What, while you were there?
If you'll sit down,
Save thee, Curan.
Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
From whence at first she weigh'd her anchorage,
but they think we are too dear: the leanness that
Re-enter SUFFOLK
Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once
I thank God, I thank God. Is't true, is't true?
What men provided, what munition sent,
Many a matter hath he told to thee,
And did he not, in his protectorship,
A sister! you are she.
But that my master is abused:
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
And so am I for Phebe.
For I by vow am so embodied yours,
Thou judgest false already: I mean, thou shalt have
Most lamentable day, most woful day,
Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
cannot be able to express it.
Since his majesty went into the field, I have seen
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
Which so appearing to the common eyes,
The army of the queen mean to besiege us.
to such a canary. Yet there has been knights, and
That raught at mountains with outstretched arms,
that he is, saving your reverence, a whoremaster,
And pass them current too. God's me, my horse!
burthens of dildos and fadings, 'jump her and thump
Villain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thou
The effect of what I wrote?
But be of comfort.
For what reason, I beseech you?
Dismay not, princes, at this accident,
Must either punish me, not being believed,
And neither man nor master would take aught
Not fit to govern and rule multitudes,
My lord?
is, that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers
What dreadful dole is here!
Shall find him by his large and portly size.
for powder; they'll fill a pit as well as better:
To accuse myself--I hate you; which I had rather
They said they were an-hungry; sigh'd forth proverbs,
Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.
word for word without book, and hath all the good
And shall, or him we will accompany.
Springs out into fast gait; then stops again,
Unless I spake, or look'd, or touch'd, or carved to thee.
I do bite my thumb, sir.
How he did seem to dive into their hearts
As doth the sea she lies in, yet the end
Come, mistress, you must tell's another tale.
Whose want even kills me.
That I may know the let, why gentle Peace
Not making any scruple of her soilure,
All hail, Macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter!
All leave us else; but let your cares o'erlook
biting of it, what pain she felt: truly, she makes
faces? Is there not milking-time, when you are
A join'd-stool.
And, thus unbraced, Casca, as you see,
if it be well used: exclaim no more against it.
And you of her, the bloody book of law
How much we do o'er-count thee.
Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge
For treason executed in our late king's days?
And let the wise man fly:
man of my kidney,--think of that,--that am as subject
They, for their truth, might better wear their heads
I was employ'd in passing to and fro,
Exit
I could not do withal; then I'll repent,
Have words to bid you, and shall find it so
A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
With this young prince.
My lord,
Pardon, my lord; I will not show my face
Call for our chiefest men of discipline,
Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue
If this were played upon a stage now, I could
Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
Ay, he does well enough if he be disposed, and so do
Three talents on the present; in future, all.
From the excess of laughter. Here he comes:
saying was born, of 'I fear no colours.'
In russet yeas and honest kersey noes:
board a dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live
again such preposterous discoveries!
composition with the King of Hungary, why then all
Have some unhappy passenger in chase.
And death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;
He is sir Robert's son, and so art thou.
Re-enter Second and Third Fishermen, drawing up a net
O, would the quarrel lay upon our heads,
Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
Come you, sir: if justice cannot tame you, she
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
But had he died in the business, madam; how then?
Urge not my father's anger, Eglamour,
And all of them that thus dishonour her.
plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
That hath aspired to Solon's happiness
therefore your grace may well say I have lost it.
The breese upon her, like a cow in June,
Will do as if for surety. He holds me well;
Cornets, and exeunt
And when this arm of mine hath chastised
Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
SCENE III. A field of battle between Towton and Saxton, in
Hold him in safety, till the prince come hither.
What, art thou waking?
Dispatch us with all speed, lest that our king
I see, as in a map, the end of all.
In fear our motion will be mock'd or carp'd at,
For my profession's sacred from above:
Or when she would with sharp needle wound
Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
me; I will show you such a necessity in his death
Hath the late overthrow wrought this offence?
The noble Menelaus.
What's the news? what's the news?
Ay, forsooth; and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne?
That hath dismissed us from our stewardship;
The lamb.
I will dispatch you severally; you to Lord Lucius;
And make them blind with tributary tears:
Why, so didst thou: or are they spare in diet,
Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham,
Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou wilt have
DON
Would I had never come from thence, nor you Thither!
never two ladies loved as they do.
Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
There is more news:
O, above measure false!
my every action to be guided by others' experiences:
Put forth disorder'd twigs; her fallow leas
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
Let her know't.
they come will tell you more: for my part, I only
And what ensues in this fell storm
To wind, to stop, to run directly on,
Ay, and for that thou diest.
By gar, den, I have as mush mock-vater as de
May be a coward's; whose ministers would prevail
I, sir! ne'er a whit.
Reads
Till time lend friends and friends their helpful swords.
here are simple scapes. Well, if Fortune be a
Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
What is he that you ask for, niece?
For thy undaunted mettle should compose
silver and lead, whereof who chooses his meaning
discommend so much. I know, sir, I am no
these four Worthies in their first show thrive,
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
Kisses her
[Aside]  That you are both decipher'd, that's the news,
To lie close by his honest bones: but now
poll; half of the which dare not shake snow from off
Hysterica passio, down, thou climbing sorrow,
And have no vigour in them.
Why, he comes in like a perjure, wearing papers.
Here is everything advantageous to life.
And finds the testy gentleman so hot,
Being strumpeted by thy contagion.
Take my prayers with you.
That drums him from his sport, and speaks as loud
But, if I help, what do you promise me?
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
Or nicely charge your understanding soul
After summer merrily.
And I will follow, more to cross that love
For every false drop in her bawdy veins
And shame thine honourable age with blood?
I have done nothing but in care of thee,
Let him be Caesar.
Defacing monuments of conquer'd France,
Abate throw at novum, and the whole world again
Mine boy? not till King Henry be dead.
Unless, perchance, you come to me again,
Re-enter ANTONY
It sorts well with your fierceness.
And list what with our council we have done.
As to upbraid you with those kindnesses
Thank you. Wondrous heavy.
Welcome to Troy! now, by Anchises' life,
King John did fly an hour or two before
Enter Senator, with papers in his hand
Two such controlling bounds shall you be, kings,
But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
Not a soul
Good sometime queen, prepare thee hence for France:
AEmilius, let the emperor give his pledges
A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother
A rashness that I ever yet have shunn'd,
That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
Come short of what he did.
How now, my love! why is your cheek so pale?
Most mighty duke, vouchsafe me speak a word:
At mine own house, good lady.
Go in and cheer the town: we'll forth and fight,
Let me speak a little. This youth that you see here
Enter the Constable of France, the LORD RAMBURES, ORLEANS, DAUPHIN, with others
Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion;
O, wert thou for myself! But, Suffolk, stay;
Think, how thou stab'dst me in my prime of youth
Will I apply that treats of happiness
Who died within the year of our redemption
A thing divine, for nothing natural
of you, like a foul-mouthed man as he is; and said
Is stol'n away to Rome; hath ta'en no leave;
Thou art one o' the false ones. Now I think on thee,
In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true:
court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all
You have drawn oaths from him not to stay. You, sir,
This is a witness that I am thy son.
Why, knows not Montague that of itself
What cannoneer begot this lusty blood?
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
God's secret judgment: I did dream to-night
Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
you.
But doth suffer a sea-change
I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders;
his legs are legs for necessity, not for flexure.
From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right,
By letters congruing to that effect,
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?
it, it transmigrates.
Whom he begot with child, let her appear,
Exeunt
Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
But to support him after. Fare you well.
This night to play before him.
my reputation! I have lost the immortal part of
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;--
This way, my lord; the castle's gently render'd:
Let him do his spite:
Lord Timon's?
Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature,
Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia; other
Our letters are prepared.
of lying. He hath wronged me in some humours: I
Who, in my mood, I stabb'd unto the heart.
Well; more anon.--Comes the king forth, I pray you?
As she is troubled with thick coming fancies,
Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart
He would have dropp'd his knife, and fell asleep
Cool and congeal again to what it was.
The wren goes to 't, and the small gilded fly
Enter LUCIUS, a Captain and other Officers, and a Soothsayer
Exit
Disloyal?
The clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
Peace, Trojan; lay thy finger on thy lips!
constrained in't to call thee knave, knight.
This is kind I offer.
Diable! Jack Rugby,--mine host de Jarteer,--have I
Pardon me, sir; it was a black ill-favor'd fly,
And these our ships, you happily may think
Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
I'll not bereave you of your servant.
They do discharge their shot of courtesy:
as I am a gentleman, I will live to be thankful to
Well, that rascal hath good mettle in him; he will not run.
But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
They've not prepared for us.
Our bloods are now in calm; and, so long, health!
Should house him safe is wreck'd and split;
But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam;
What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
I do.
Your dangerous lenity. If you are learn'd,
No more, sweet Hamlet!
Thou ask'st me such a question. Have I not been
loss! the thief gone with so much, and so much to
As here at home, suggests the king our master
I do but partly know, sir: it is music in parts.
No, my lord.
Is he come?
To any pastime?
I tender 't here; I do as truly suffer
Did but convey unto our fearful minds
What since thou sworest is sworn against thyself
Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar,
Reason; because they then less need one another.
Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors;
The single and peculiar life is bound,
Ay, if you come not in the blood of others,
Ere they can hide their levity in honour;
Kneel down, kneel down, and wonder.
Where the disease is violent. Lay hands upon him,
And may direct his course as please himself,
A wicked day, and not a holy day!
To the Fool
At many leisures I proposed.
How he describes himself!
By working wreakful vengeance on thy foes.
Come like shadows, so depart!
is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen
Exit FALSTAFF
Murder thy breath in the middle of a word,
You will have Gremio to keep you fair.
And could not get him for my heart to do it.
O, fie upon thee, slanderer!
vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
And loves not me, be you, good lord, assured
did come to his hands, and commands shall be
Who nothing hurt withal hiss'd him in scorn:
A boar-spear in my hand; and--in my heart
I say she never did invent this letter;
Some say the lark makes sweet division;
Will no more hear from thence.
So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
and hose. I'll go hide me.
The story then goes false, you threw it him
Help me into some house, Benvolio,
Bestride our down-fall'n birthdom: each new morn
Enter the Senators from TIMON
A whoreson dog, that shall pelter thus with us!
But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar's house;
Hath no self-love, nor he that loves himself
Within an hour, and pacing through the forest,
Thy dowerless daughter, king, thrown to my chance,
Till I can find occasion of revenge.
And is become the bellows and the fan
And last the hearty welcome.
That Silvia is excelling;
hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
Shakes like a thing unfirm? O Cicero,
this civil buffeting hold, we shall buy maidenheads
For what, alas, can these my single arms?
I never thought him worse.
Exit
Hugh Otecake, sir, or George Seacole; for they can
The very train of her worst wearing gown
I would have him poison'd with a pot of ale.
I will, my lord.
Enter the WARWICK and SALISBURY
So, by your circumstance, you call me fool.
O, thou didst then ne'er love so heartily!
scarlet; and when you breathe in your watering, they
'Tis done like Hector; but securely done,
Exeunt
Enter CAPULET in his gown, and LADY CAPULET
On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just.
Exit IAGO
Richard, enough; I will be king, or die.
have a foreknowledge of that too, and therefore
I have well approved it, sir. I drunk!
I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool,
What a vice were it in Ajax now,--
Traffic's thy god; and thy god confound thee!
His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave
Henry is able to enrich his queen
Brother,--
If more, the more thou hast wrong'd me.
I remember.
One thus descended,
Ere that correction. Troilus, I say! what, Troilus!
I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you: but
But old folks, many feign as they were dead;
That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
Hear you, sir?
Do not swear, and eat it.
Let him shun castles;
With the earl, sir, here within.
An old man, broken with the storms of state,
mouth; this will shake your shaking, I can tell you,
And instances of infinite of love
declined, Singulariter, nominativo, hic, haec, hoc.
Deny me not, I prithee, gentle Joan.
Well, jest on, brothers: I can tell you both
And to that youth he calls his Rosalind
But more in Troilus thousand fold I see
the moon is never but a month old: and I say beside
You'll serve another master. I look on you
Say, she shall be a high and mighty queen.
No; to the spital go,
creeping thing.
Nor we disturb'd with prodigies on earth.
All this we swear.
And rape, I fear, was root of thine annoy.
Ovidius Naso was the man: and why, indeed, Naso,
Honour is cudgelled. Well, bawd I'll turn,
I have inly wept,
Pleads your fair usage; and to Diomed
To weaken and discredit our exposure,
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
Is't possible?
humour as well as waiting in the court, I can tell
What was the impediment that broke this off?
Enter a fourth Gentleman
Ay me! what is this world! what news are these!
Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong,
I have great hope in that; for in her youth
Which, like unruly children, make their sire
That he did owe him: and I know, my lord,
God's name. Go, take him away, I say, and strike
Exit
Enter IRIS
Is Paris lost? is Rouen yielded up?
And, noble Dauphin, albeit we swear
Had you not fully laid my state before me,
Was heavy on me: thou art so far before
ANTIPHOLUS
Though not for Rome itself.
They say, in great extremity; and fear'd
Yet ask.
To add the death of you.
Even till that England, hedged in with the main,
So soon as dinner's done, we'll forth again,
If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call
Flourish. Exeunt
I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy,
merrily, and go away sadly: the reason of this?
You rascal!
For these deep shames and great indignities.
Harry, withdraw thyself; thou bleed'st too much.
question, thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look
softly as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.
Let them approach.
Where is he?
Thou hast a sister by the mother's side,
Come, give me your flowers, ere the sea mar it.
La main? elle est appelee de hand.
I charge thee use her well, even for my charge;
such shallow follies in others, become the argument
And I have seen thee pause and take thy breath,
To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
You know me, do you not?
Desired more than constrain'd: to satisfy,
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
Is all the grace I beg.
Fret fetlock deep in gore and with wild rage
First let me know, and then I'll answer you.
To DULL
comedy: my cue is villanous melancholy, with a
Thou dost miscall retire:
False king! why hast thou broken faith with me,
To gain the love o' the commonalty: the duke
To see you here before me. O my soul's joy!
Hast here cut off my lord. To write and read
She is so hot because the meat is cold;
But time hath nothing blurr'd those lines of favour
wooing. But I protest to thee, pretty one, my
Howbeit they would hold up this Salique law
Most freely I confess, myself and Toby
And when we have our armours buckled on,
Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested thee
Launcelot, my boy.
upon your traitorous father are not fit for your
Our viands had been poison'd, or at least
The city is well stored.
And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.
was up so early: he cannot choose but take this
He goeth down
Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well;
Exeunt PARIS and MENELAUS
Like a right gipsy, hath, at fast and loose,
But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft
Then why should they love Edward more than me?
Good morrow, Alexander. How do you, cousin? When
SCENE I. Before the castle.
Shame on himself! for my desert is honour:
Unless you play the pious innocent,
best array: bid your friends; for if you will be
Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
O, no, good Kate; neither art thou the worse
About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
And freely urge against me.
Let me shake thy hand;
To let the troop pass fairly; or I'll find
Nerissa teaches me what to believe:
So be it, for it cannot be but so.
Than twenty times your stop: but, O vain boast!
KING CLAUDIUS dies
Be by, good madam, when we do awake him;
I was so unfortunate a beggar.
He will, forsooth, have all my prisoners;
Then, good my mother, let me know my father;
Thither shall it then:
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
Sola! did you see Master Lorenzo?
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
One general tongue unto us, this good man,
To which the Grecians are most prompt and pregnant:
Upon that I kiss your hand, and I call you my queen.
Why, this boy will carry a letter twenty mile, as
Well, that's set down.
to go to bed now: come, knight; come, knight.
I will encounter darkness as a bride,
And some few vanities that make him light;
they hate upon no better a ground: therefore, for
desired in the hearts of his subjects: I would fain
That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
Sir, we have all
And therefore in this city will I stay
Which throes thee much to yield.
Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue:
Quoted and sign'd to do a deed of shame,
Re-enter POLIXENES
Of Bolingbroke: their fortunes both are weigh'd:
Throwing restraint upon us; or say they strike us,
's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself:
To the Fool
Come, lady, die to live: this wedding-day
King and commander of our commonweal,
SCENE V. Mytilene. A street before the brothel.
I know vat I have to do. Adieu.
It is too little, helping him to all;
It should none spare that come within his power.
Thy latest words. In the reproof of chance
as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
Re-enter DOLABELLA
If this salute my blood a jot: it faints me,
Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord.
Enter FERDINAND, with a paper
It is to see a nobleman want manners.
He shall not need it, if he have his own.
If he appeal the duke on ancient malice;
To the hopeful execution do I leave you
Lord cardinal, if thou think'st on heaven's bliss,
[To Provost]  Stay, sir; stay awhile.
Caesar's better parts
And, with a feeble gripe, says 'Dear my lord,
Nurture can never stick; on whom my pains,
Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
Withal obdurate, do not hear him plead;
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
You, gracious couple, do: and then I lost--
Welcome, Lord Somerset. What news from France?
That face of his the hungry cannibals
What Troy means fairly shall be spoke aloud.
At Bristol I expect my soldiers;
For any thing he shall be charged withal:
Re-enter BISHOP OF ELY
At the queen's be't: 'good' should be pertinent
To scorch your face and to disfigure you.
With three-fold love I wish you all these three.
Fairly offer'd.
then, peace be with him.
Rosalind is your love's name?
Will I live?
An if he may, then am I lawful king;
Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
Nothing but thunder! Merciful Heaven,
'Thou liest' unto thee with a voice as free
poets, cannot
me.'
What is the matter, my lord?
Myself and Beaufort had him in protection;
Enter TRANIO, and the Pedant dressed like VINCENTIO
What, Ariel! my industrious servant, Ariel!
Than, by concealing it, heap on your head
Why, what art thou?
travel, that hath seen the world; but let that pass.
too that die against their wills; so should I, if I
Nothing to be were better. This was my master,
And never after to inherit it.
O, you have made good work!
Of whom, even to the state's best health, I have
An you mean to mock me after, you should not have
They take for natural father. The game is up.
To spend with thee: we must obey the time.
That it may show me what a face I have,
To grow there and to bear,--'Let me not live,'--
And comment then upon his sudden death.
Find cause in Caesar.
From monster's view, and all things shall be peace.
I see I cannot get thy father's love;
Do what ye will, my lords: and, pray, forgive me,
More bright in zeal than the devotion which
Come on, my boy: how dost, my boy? art cold?
The late demand that you did sound me in.
I am, sir,
When thou shalt bring me word she loves my son,
Wilt have him live? Is he thy kin? thy friend?
His answer was, he would unto the stews,
Re-enter FORD, PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
unlawfully born. But, O, how much is the good duke
Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
To eat those little darlings whom they loved.
And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--
He made her melancholy, sad, and heavy;
Will you not, sons?
A business that this night may execute,
For he's disposed as the hateful raven:
Away; disperse: but till 'tis one o'clock,
Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge!
And we must yearn therefore.
Does pity, as constrained blemishes,
And play'd to take spectators. For behold me
These be good humours! your honour wins bad humours.
action. But, sweet Ned,--to sweeten which name of
How does my queen? Thou stormest venomously;
A threadbare juggler and a fortune-teller,
Nor never did my actions yet commence
What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
Of their dead bodies!
The bonds of heaven are slipp'd, dissolved, and loosed;
When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands
O for a Muse of fire, that would ascend
What, shall we suffer this? let's pluck him down:
Impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
Or a dry wheel grate on the axle-tree;
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
Without discharge, money, or furniture,
Put forth thy hand, reach at the glorious gold.
Go, gentlemen,
To answer twenty thousand such as you.
with Sir Oliver Martext, the vicar of the next
For they have fought for Rome, and all in vain;
Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
To the Propontic and the Hellespont,
So much as lank'd not.
Come, sir, along with us.
All, all, cry shame against me, yet I'll speak.
And will not lightly trust the messenger
That shows thou art unconfirmed. Thou knowest that
bald; a fair face will wither; a full eye will wax
Know'st me not by my clothes?
Will my lord say so?
Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin:
The better.
ancient amities; divisions in state, menaces and
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
The name, and all the additions to a king;
Born to eclipse thy life this afternoon.
Why, then, your other senses grow imperfect
Exit
Why, then resolve me whether you will or no.
Between his purpose and his conscience,
You are there followed by a faithful shepherd;
Give me some music; music, moody food
To-morrow, sir: best first go see your lodging.
Our late noble master!
Than they in fearing.
The universal landlord.
A thousand talents to me.
That e'er I heard: shall I produce the men?
Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing:
Exit SIR HUGH EVANS
Of great revenue, and she hath no child:
He is much changed.
If you be maid or no?
Amen.
This hand of mine hath writ in thy behalf,
My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
Sits down
[Standing forth]  What says my general?
Now thou'rt troublesome.
Thou'rt a scholar; let us therefore eat and drink.
me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's
And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true;
Let him that was the cause of this have power
For that he has,
me in the garret one night, as we were scouring my
And some donation freely to estate
Since all and every part of what we would
Alas, your too much love and care of me
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
And added years to his short banishment,
seems to cast water on the burning bear,
But there was such laughing! Queen Hecuba laughed
And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
The sceptre, learning, physic, must
There's strange news come, sir.
Enforced us to this execution?
Made mine eyes water; but more merry tears
Than any of her lineaments can show her.
offenceless dog to affright an imperious lion: sue
Ay, ay, three thousand ducats.
Sir Stephen Scroop, besides a clergyman
My life upon't, young though thou art, thine eye
The dignity of your office, is the point
[Aside]  Cold news for me; for I had hope of France
Thou canst not, cardinal, devise a name
When misery could beguile the tyrant's rage,
Deny't again.
And, kinsmen, then we may go pipe for justice.
Madam, he's gone to serve the duke of Florence:
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, and IMOGEN
There is another comfort than this world,
And undiscover'd come to me again
And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
Early to-morrow will we rise, and hence.
And of such great authority in France
For love of her that's gone,
Without the sensible and true avouch
Not being torn a-pieces, we have done:
What, not a word? Nay, then thou lovest it not;
Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor
Brother, good night: to-morrow is the day.
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
Than you expect: unseal this letter soon;
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
IMOGEN in bed, reading; a Lady attending
heart you love her, being out of heart that you
Comfort, dear mother: God is much displeased
That you are worth your breeding; which I doubt not;
The keys of all the posterns: please your highness
Why, brother, wherefore stand you on nice points?
And sat at good men's feasts and wiped our eyes
Young Talbot's valour makes me smile at thee:
And, friends unknown, you shall bear witness to 't:
If on my credit you dare build so far
him their examination.
I told him gently of our grievances,
Where is my mother! why, she is within;
That Ferdinand is drown'd?
desire your more acquaintance, good Master
His little speaking shows his love but small.
Biron is one of the votaries with the king; and here
Lord, I'll stab thee.
And such a wall, as I would have you think,
Come, and get thee a sword, though made of a lath;
Thrice famed, beyond all erudition:
chamber: I'll be so bold as stay, sir, till she come
Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts,
They willfully themselves exile from light
Sir, understand you this of me in sooth:
Or my life imply her any danger?
To the field, to the field!
neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
Sings
Unclasp'd my practise, quit his fortunes here,
Far be it we should honour such as these
To-morrow, good Sir Michael, is a day
That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
A stanchless avarice that, were I king,
Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior,--
Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reap'd
'And some have greatness thrust upon them.'
Was either pitied in him or forgotten.
Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost!
Wilt thou be lord of all the world?
Of marching to Philippi presently?
Here's Decius Brutus, he shall tell them so.
Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa! let him trot by.
Ay, that change is the spite.
I grant him part; but then, in his Armenia,
And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge
And their true sovereign, whom they must obey?
Olympus-high and duck again as low
Vail to her mistress Dian; still
The royal fool thou copest with,--
To suffer with him. Good love, call him back.
All days of glory, joy and happiness.
With that face?
Music
blindness! I am sure hanging's the way of winking.
Which when you part from, lose, or give away,
Exit
How now, mad spirit!
Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace.
And he first took exceptions at this badge,
Be you remember'd, Marcus, she's gone, she's fled.
All to you. Lights, more lights!
DON
awake your senses, that you may the better judge.
All her perfections challenge sovereignty:
As she is stubborn-chaste against all suit.
Throws up a skull
Know him! ay.
comes to fight.
Servant, you are welcome to a worthless mistress.
I must leave you.
Nay, I will do as my cousin Shallow says: I pray
The mirth whereof so larded with my matter,
That he hath used thee.
All sects, all ages smack of this vice; and he
Who joint'st thou with but with a lordly nation
He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
The mean is drown'd with your unruly bass.
That striking in our country's cause
Most useful for thy country.
But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
I thank thee, most imperious Agamemnon.
Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon;
cut of a certain courtier's beard: he sent me word,
In noble eminence enthroned and sphered
God give you joy, sir, of your gallant bride!
If we shadows have offended,
What, ho, Brabantio! Signior Brabantio, ho!
your father's tenant, these fourscore years.
You must not take for fire. From this time
March to the bridge; it now draws toward night:
And want of wisdom, you, that best should teach us,
There's four or five, to great Saint Jaques bound,
Nay, an thou pass upon me, I'll no more with thee.
Windsor stag; and the fattest, I think, i' the
Of all the gentry; for the most part such
Thou hast beguiled my hopes; nought but mine eye
And I in fury hither follow'd them,
giddy offences as he hath generally taxed their
For England go: I will whet on the king.
further use to be made than alone the recovery of
Thou robed man of justice, take thy place;
Melting with tenderness and kind compassion
To whisper and conspire against my youth?
The kiss you take is better than you give;
This gentle offer of the perilous time.
Henry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
But resolution, and the briefest end.
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse:
I will in, to be revenged for this villany.
Now, farewell, flattery: die, Andronicus;
And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories
O, ay, Curtis, ay: and therefore fire, fire; cast
The passages made toward it: on my honour,
That she is living,
brazed to it.
And AEsculapius guide us!
A goodly prize, fit for the devil's grace!
You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
That I have room with Rome to curse awhile!
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, DEIPHOBUS, and DIOMEDES
Enter Cupid
Of every hearer: for it so falls out
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
Well said.
And said, 'Dear brother, live, and be a king'?
But for your private satisfaction,
Fie, fie, Gratiano! where are all the rest?
constantly, but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass,
Your servants ever
Belief of it oppresses me already.
But, being seasoned with a gracious voice,
Falstaff do in the days of villany? Thou seest I
They say, that they have measured many a mile
Your potent and infectious fevers heap
Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
Why, that was he.
She will sing any man at first sight.
Rides on the posting winds and doth belie
Whose smoke, like incense, doth perfume the sky.
The purity of his.
He dies for Claudio's death.
he's a very fool and a prodigal.
Cousin, of many men
Of Helicanus would set on
Enter BLUNT
So that, in these ten thousand they have lost,
Exeunt
But what see I? No Thisby do I see.
When inward joy enforced my heart to smile!
Our shows are more than will; for still we prove
within it, reclined on a couch. A barge lying
'Tis from your sister.
Upon the sobbing deer.
To serve me well, you all should do me duty,
Do any thing but this thou doest. Empty
Then I lie not.
Be barr'd his entrance here.
Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba,
They do not point on me.
Ready to drop upon me that, when I waked,
unmannerly sadness in his youth. I had rather be
No, sir, not I; I came from Syracuse.
Their weapons like to lightning came and went;
In a wall'd prison, packs and sects of great ones,
My dreams will, sure, prove ominous to the day.
Do you hear, my lord? do you hear?
Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown.
When, being not at your lodging to be found,
And not my husband's secrets?
From off the rock Tarpeian never more
your knees and make ready.
Here pitch our tents, even here in Bosworth field.
The king my father wreck'd.
What, and stake down?
If low, an agate very vilely cut;
Do not you love him, madam?
Why fled you from the court? and whither? These,
servant, under his master's command transporting a
You heavy people, circle me about,
Is to himself--I will not say how true--
As much as ever Coriolanus did.
Where Philomel gave up. I have enough:
'Tis gone!
Thus play I in one person many people,
Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.
To live in prayer and contemplation,
And your reports have set the murder on.
As clears her from all blame.
wears a lock.
be ready at the farthest by five of the clock. See
What must I say?
Her C's, her U's and her T's: why that?
Amen!
Ready in gibes, quick-answer'd, saucy and
And so return to you, and nothing else?
The pleasures such a beauty brings with it;
A monk, I tell you; a resolved villain,
live, he had suffered for't; you shall judge. He
SCENE IV. A plain in Denmark.
To horse, to horse! urge doubts to them that fear.
For sauciness. I pray you, let us hence,
our element we know nothing. Come down, you witch,
understand what you mean by bidding me taste my legs.
To lash the rascals naked through the world
Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture,
To ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues.
conclusions to be as kisses, if your four negatives
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest
Lavinia, thou shalt be employ'd: these arms!
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
Could but be brought to know our ends are honest,
May it be gently heard: when we debate
I must entreat you, honour me so much
A stouter champion never handled sword.
Antony
SCENE V. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
Goes on my master's grief.
But, for the bloody napkin?
What is't o'clock?
I will be mild and gentle in my speech.
Is't even so?
The woman's part in me! For there's no motion
Becomes a sun and makes your son a shadow:
These flowers are like the pleasures of the world;
I could make as true a boast as that, if I had a sow
My prisoner? or my guest? by your dread 'Verily,'
fair, or I'll   never look on her; mild, or come not
Stood on her cheeks, as doth the honey-dew
Enter GONERIL and EDMUND
True swains in love shall in the world to come
eyes too, examined my parts with most judicious
keep thy word justly; swear not; commit not with
country Greece gets more with begging than we can do
Best fitteth my degree or your condition
Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.
Who long'st, like me, to see thy lord; who long'st,--
In their own fashion, like a merriment.
But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
This chain which now you wear so openly:
Exit
Why, then, Lord Talbot there shall talk with him
thing that I have commanded thee: the third is,
And with our swords, upon a pile of wood,
Why, then will I no more:
'Tis ten to one this play can never please
His Jewish heart: therefore, I do beseech you,
Exeunt
My lord is dead; Edmund and I have talk'd;
With more than foreign heart. We every day
nor Italian, and you will come into the court and
No slander; they steal hearts.
Open the gates, and let me in.
And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich
Is left to tyrannize upon my breast;
Confined in all she has, her monument,
dangerous flat and fatal, where the carcasses of many
says, you are no good member of the commonwealth,
Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen:
The prince and Claudio promised by this hour
Ever in fear to kindle your dislike,
Go, then my mother, to thy daughter go
Call hither Barnardine and Claudio:
Clerk, draw a deed of gift.
That capability and god-like reason
us. Come, stand not amazed at it, but go along with
Good signior, you shall more command with years
you much mirth.
Welcome, Harry: what, will not this castle yield?
Good Proteus, go with me to my chamber,
Now Jove, in his next commodity of hair, send thee a beard!
'I know,' quoth he, 'no house, no wife, no mistress.'
It is a surplus of your grace, which never
How's this? We must take another course with you.
a little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little.
Shrouded in cloth of state; balm'd and entreasured
More than your lord's departure weep not: more's not seen;
Till it o'er-run the stew; laws for all faults,
would say so.
My eyes are then no eyes, nor I Biron:
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
have his wit this year.
SCENE V. Dunsinane. Within the castle.
That will say anything but were they false
for the place where; where, I mean, I did encounter
Perhaps, him and her, sir: what have you to do?
Here comes Sir John.
love, my dear Moth?
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
Upon supposed fairness, often known
Noble lady!
In this vile world? So, fare thee well.
And the remainder, that shall still depend,
So swift a pace hath thought that even now
thy honour
O my son, what theme?
To sit here at this present, and behold
Thou hold'st a place, for which the pained'st fiend
Of love, of worldly matters and direction,
Do not think so; you shall not find it so:
Dispose of them, of me; the walls are thine:
Here comes my man; I think he brings the money.
Enter LUCIANUS
Yes, that you did, sir, and forswore it too.
By spying and avoiding fortune's malice,
What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
You sent me deputy for Ireland;
Your worship is deceived; the gown is made
Dumain was at my service, and his sword:
I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
So the fool follows after.
Sister, where thou?
That come before the swallow dares, and take
received a letter this night; 'tis dangerous to be
It's fit it should be so; for princes are
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
Re-enter CLOTEN
good enough for him.
even then lost when it was found. But O, the noble
Look to thy bark: I'll not be long before
Well, well, he was the covert'st shelter'd traitor
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw
bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty?
As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her;
Are worse than devils.
That severs day from night.
It may be so, for it is not mine own.
Answer'd neglectingly I know not what,
Prithee, if thou lovest me, tell me.
For this one wish, that you had power and wealth
by this hand, I will take thee a box on the ear.
A meaner woman was delivered
The people do admit you, and are summon'd
And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets
Look, look! O heavy day!
To sunder his that was thine enemy?
So fared our father with his enemies;
I am glad to see you mad.
His execution sworn.
Some true love turn'd and not a false turn'd true.
SCENE III. London. A street.
Once did I get him bound and sent him home,
But by immortal Providence she's mine:
A green and gilded snake had wreathed itself,
I dare not, dear,--
As hard to leave as keep; whose top to climb
Rotten humidity; below thy sister's orb
abridgement
I know you do not love me; for your sisters
Troop home to churchyards: damned spirits all,
Enter MARK ANTONY
If 'twill not serve,'tis not so base as you;
O, fear him not;
Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
The word, 'Lux tua vita mihi.'
Pride, pomp and circumstance of glorious war!
Fled from his father, from his hopes, and with
And here she stands, touch her whoever dare;
His brother here and put him to the sword:
My favour were as great; be witness this.
Thy school-days frightful, desperate, wild, and furious,
Ah, hark! the fatal followers do pursue;
How with a sportful malice it was follow'd,
king himself.
my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
They call this bed-work, mappery, closet-war;
I pray she may; as well for the encouragement of the
What is betid to Cloten; but remain
Wherefore this ghastly looking?
Woo contrary, deceived by these removes.
For breathing in their faces; beat the ground
I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
I am no baby, I, that with base prayers
O, then, beware;
Of this strange nature that a thing inseparate
Upon the valleys, whose low vassal seat
By self-unable motion: therefore dare not
But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast
Well, well, my lords, respect him;
Than for the love of reckless Silvia.
Madam, 'tis now in tune.
Brutus, my lord!
his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some
And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks.
No way to fly, nor strength to hold out flight:
Good ancient, you are welcome.
leur noces, il n'est pas la coutume de France.
You cannot witness for me, being slain.
Most fit for business: go make thee ready;
And cursed Dionyza hath
Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound
And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?
Dissolve my life! The next Caesarion smite!
To your eye,
That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible
Safe toward your love and honour.
A little joy enjoys the queen thereof;
With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers, shall
A very dishonest paltry boy, and more a coward than
Pardon me, Bianca:
good king's son.
O, sir,--
Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, horsed
Stubborn to justice, apt to accuse it, and
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
So be gone: you are sped.
The ditty does remember my drown'd father.
To let him slip at will.
[Aside]  Why, so this gallant will command the sun.
Sermons in stones and good in every thing.
Exeunt SUFFOLK and WARWICK
And then comes answer like an Absey book:
Think it no more;
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
The parts that fortune hath bestow'd upon her,
Him and his worth and our great need of him
conscience says 'No; take heed,' honest Launcelot;
I come to tender it and my appliance
Master, shall I fetch your stuff from shipboard?
No father owning it,--which is, indeed,
Down thy ill-uttering throat.
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--
the knave and get thee, I am much deceived. But,
And she can have no more than all I have:
he hath eaten: they are never curst but when they
manners, Kate; and the liberty that follows our
A jewel, lock'd into the wofull'st cask
O Marcius, Marcius!
Lest they should spy my windpipe's dangerous notes:
Thy substance, valued at the highest rate,
Burn'd on the water: the poop was beaten gold;
Hath left me gaged. To you, Antonio,
Of Arthur, who they say is kill'd to-night
Than greatness going off.
Smile to't before; if winterly, thou need'st
We will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top,
Enter GOWER and FLUELLEN, meeting
What's your will?
For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues,
Pretty and witty; wild, and yet, too, gentle:
Enter RATCLIFF; CATESBY following
From most true wretchedness: so thou, Posthumus,
Both take and give.
Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES
Pardon me, Caius Cassius:
entrails were hairs; le cheval volant, the Pegasus,
But rather make you thank your pains for it.
All use of quittance.
Who by the hand of France this day hath made
Will modestly discover to yourself
And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade
I will have more, or scold it out of him.
encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are. When
I'll board him presently.
Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
Vouchsafe my labour, and long live your lordship!
And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
Such as she says my lord did say I was.
hear of it hereafter. But shall we have this
To-morrow shall you know our mind at full.
plough for her sweet love three years. But, most
And so, I take my leave, and thank you both.
[Aside]  Lord Lucius and Lucullus? hum!
Here in this country, where we now remain.
Alas, thou hast misconstrued every thing!
And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.
wherein crafty, but in villany? wherein villanous,
He's sentenced; 'tis too late.
My Icarus, my blossom, in his pride.
Here shall they make their ransom on the sand,
Having alike your cause? Of this my letters
And kill him in the shell.
But this, which they produce from Pharamond,
Will you go hear this news, signior?
of will or testament which argues a great sickness
They fight, and all enter the city
It will go hard with poor Antonio.
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
Go quick away; the story of my life
Exit Poet
They sing:
deal with poison; I will possess him with
What do you see? you see an asshead of your own, do
I will reward you for this venturous deed.
And thee after, when thou hast conquer'd!
Aboard my galley I invite you all:
How low soever the matter, I hope in God for high words.
The best is past. Brother, my lord the duke,
We will unite the white rose and the red:
Which darest not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor.
And, madam, these for you; from whom I know not.
A fistula, my lord.
I am beloved of beauteous Hermia:
I'll fee thee to stand up.
[Aside]  To have smelt like a fool.
Ay, by any means prove a tall fellow: if I do not
Therefore, for goodness' sake, and as you are known
Why, she was wash'd and cut and trimm'd, and 'twas
Leap in with me into this angry flood,
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
So many blows upon this face of mine,
That were excusable, that, and thousands more
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
That longs for every thing that he can come by.
And my dear father: how features are abroad,
Exeunt
Did gage them both in an unjust behalf,
Thinking his prattle to be tedious;
I wish we may: but yet have I a mind
We must with all our main of power stand fast:
brother are hard by, with the king's forces.
He that has but effected his good will
Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
Go, bid her hide him quickly from the duke.
hand. Oh, oh, oh!
No more will I their babes: tears virginal
Within that space you may have drawn together
Was call'd Sicilius, who did join his honour
All's well now, sweeting; come away to bed.
To seek my uncle in the forest of Arden.
Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence!
Upon my life, Petruchio means but well,
like those that under hot ardent zeal would set
If it? please your honour, I know not well what they
SCENE III. A room in the Garter Inn.
Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
He is dead and gone, lady,
To Bolingbroke.
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
Fly not; stand stiff: ambition's debt is paid.
Midway between your tents and walls of Troy,
go near to make a man look sad.
Good my lord, take his offer; go into the house.
And unrespective boys: none are for me
O inglorious league!
rough usage; but my mother, having power of his
Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take,
Exeunt
complexion.
To link my dear friend to a common stale.
Exit
Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you, sir,
Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame,
Whilst I was big in clamour came there in a man,
And all the unlawful issue that their lust
Come I appellant to this princely presence.
Yet it shall come from me to do thee good.
The ireful bastard Orleans, that drew blood
'Tis not so sweet now as it was before.
There is a world elsewhere.
Without a monument!--bring thee all this;
They fight again
Provost, a word with you.
In your distrust.
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
Ay, an it like your good worship.
Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick:
Master, be one of them; it's an honourable kind of thievery.
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate
That I may prompt them: and of such as have,
Caesar himself has work, and our oppression
Thou whoreson, senseless villain!
Enter Players
He is unqualitied with very shame.
Ay, marry,
That handkerchief
What is my name? Whither am I going? Where do I
And I am lowted by a traitor villain
murderer dead,
Go to a gossips' feast and go with me;
Or, if misfortune miss the first career,
Must have their voices; neither will they bate
Say I am merry: come to me again,
SCENE IV. Florence. The Widow's house.
As much good stay with thee as go with me!
Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem:
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.
With strange invention: but of that to-morrow,
Thy two sons forth; who, by Belarius stol'n,
I do remit these young men's heinous faults: Stand up.
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along,
Not Hermia but Helena I love:
[Aside]  As many inches as you have oceans. Puppies!
All this my sister is, or else should be.
I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
I know your favour, Lord Ulysses, well.
For all the mud in Egypt: have you heard it?
Well; what's your suit?
Yet are the king's; and, till my soul forsake,
Excepting one, I would he were the best
Yet, when I saw it last, it was besmear'd
by the heads, dogs and bears by the neck, monkeys by
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
From Egypt drive her all-disgraced friend,
Came you from the king, my lord
When nights are longest there: I'll take my leave.
Yea.
with the finger of my substance: if he take her,
that this is no time to lend money, especially upon
Thou hast a servant named Lucilius.
Call'd for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester;
For prisoners ask'st thou? hell our prison is.
I warrant you, when time is serve.
This passes!
Beaumont and Marle, Vaudemont and Lestrale.
What love could press Lysander from my side?
Trust to't, thou shalt not--on thy mother's womb,
Let us rather
not with love: prove that ever I lose more blood
his grace, and his majesty too!
What else, man? The stuff we have, a strong wind
To ruffle in the commonwealth of Rome.
You made great Juno angry.
Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste:
It is, it is: hie hence, be gone, away!
Whispers CHARMIAN
To keep the horsemen off from breaking in.
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
And after, this: and then to breakfast with
And he a prince and ruler of the land:
Give me a case to put my visage in:
Blow like sweet roses in this summer air.
We have landed in ill time: the skies look grimly
'Faith sir, we were carousing till the
Both your majesties
leave these rogues, I am the veriest varlet that
By our permission, is allow'd to make.
Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
Is like a good thing, being often read,
Mine action and thine own? our horses' labour?
And when the fit was on him, I did mark
It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.
A frank one.
Blue coats to tawny coats. Priest, beware your beard,
Re-enter BARDOLPH, with FORD disguised
Why, you whoreson round man, what's the matter?
His contemplation were above the earth,
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
Nay, what hope
With every joint a wound, and that to-morrow!
I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!
And once again I do receive thee honest.
Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy.
Co-rivall'd greatness? Either to harbour fled,
ANNE's train.
The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
SCENE III. Florence. Before the DUKE's palace.
That he which hath no stomach to this fight,
Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
Say 'Thus did Banquo.'
But being charged, we will be still by land,
Holy, fair and wise is she;
Witty, courteous, liberal, full of spirit.
I am that Isabella and his sister.
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
Look him i' the face.
This louring tempest of your home-bred hate;
Marcus, unknit that sorrow-wreathen knot:
You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.
What wilt thou do?
Thou call'st on him that hates thee: it was he
Had answer'd for his deed: now 'tis awake
As I required: and wot you what I found
That you would put me to this shame and trouble;
Humbly, sir, I thank you.
On whose employment I was sent to you:
Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
I wonder if Titania be awaked;
Due to this heinous capital offence,
Plies Desdemona to repair his fortunes
impossible you should take true root but by the
Did you ever hear the like?
Exeunt
I hold you a penny,
I see thy fury: if I longer stay,
inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer; for where
To entreat your grace but in a small request,
Madam, how like you this play?
letter: it was given me by Costard, and sent me
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
They say, one Taurus.
Let us on heaps go offer up our lives.
Fie! what a foolish duty call you this?
ANTIPHOLUS
How now! what news?
Now heaven send thee good fortune!
I'll stand to-day for thee and me and Troy.
Would I were dead, so you did live again!
Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby
Push! did you see my cap?
At least, good manners, as not thus to suffer
In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends.
What means Sicilia?
And left this head on. How should this be? Pisanio?
Thy demon, that's thy spirit which keeps thee, is
That peaceful truce shall be proclaim'd in France,
Spare thy Athenian cradle and those kin
Your brain, and every function of your power,
Your liberties and the charters that you bear
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Thou that wast born at sea, buried at Tarsus,
[Within]  An answer from the king, my
Charles, and the rest, it is enacted thus:
If she dares trust me with her little babe,
Kind and dear princess!
He goes hence frowning: but it honours us
Enter CORNWALL and EDMUND
Well. I will do it, though I take thee in the
to me: my remembrance is very free and clear from
'Tis Cinna; I do know him by his gait;
Into the clustering battle of the French;
a hair; and I'll be sworn my pocket was picked. Go
which may make you and him to rue at the other.
is prodigious, there will come some change; the sun
might take two thieves kissing.
Know you the musicians?
There is not work enough for all our hands;
With Ate by his side come hot from hell,
Give Mutius burial with our brethren.
Your weak condition to the raw cold morning.
Speaks Suffolk as he thinks?
it? dispense with trifles; what is it?
It rains downright.
Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine
Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side:
So shall I no whit be behind in duty
And thy advice this night I'll put in practise.
SCENE IV. Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.
A gentleman.
shalt have a licence to kill for a hundred lacking
dogs bark so? be there bears i' the town?
I call them forth to credit her.
But by some power it is,--my love to Hermia,
With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest
In God's name, cheerly on, courageous friends,
Shall chide your trespass and return your mock
The Grecian Diomed, and our Antenor
Yet call the ambassador; and, as you please,
Tear my bright hair and scratch my praised cheeks,
Now, the gods to-bless your honour!
Kissing her
About the ninth hour, lady.
About a certain question in the law
He'll never hear him.
Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
O no, my reasons are too deep and dead;
You know how apt our love was to accord
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
Say to Ventidius I would speak with him:
Exeunt GONERIL, EDMUND, and OSWALD
be followed: after them, and take a more dilated farewell.
He acts thy greatness in: and when he speaks,
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
Re-enter Provost
My heart for anger burns; I cannot brook it.
To whom he gave these words, 'O, father abbot,
Come place him here by me,
To, to, to--
That if it would but apprehend some joy,
Look out o' the other side your monument;
Or do but lift this arm, the best of you
The smell whereof shall breed a plague in France.
I did but crave.
Would make me sad.
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
salt water.
What is he?
You justicers, that these our nether crimes
Exeunt King Henry, Blunt, and train
Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth;
Which keeps me pale! Light thickens; and the crow
Weep not, sweet queen; for trickling tears are vain.
Exit Cupid
Abate thy rage, abate thy manly rage,
Enter ROMEO, MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, with five or six Maskers, Torch-bearers, and others
confess it brokenly with your English tongue. Do
scratched face.
Yet did I purpose as they do entreat;
never saw you before in all my life.
Strike up, pipers.
Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit
A young and learned doctor to our court.
Which had they, what four throned ones could have weigh'd
Exit
Exit
And bring me their opinions of success.
Whom if you find, and win unto return,
As a sick girl. Ye gods, it doth amaze me
dozens? Is this Moorfields to muster in? or have
She hath that ring of yours.
A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.
Away! I do condemn mine ears that have
Who gives any thing to poor Tom? whom the foul
must produce for an interpreter.
loves the whore there, might send that Greekish
dull tribunes,
His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle.
The legate of the pope hath been with me,
And this soft courage makes your followers faint.
Exit
From all the impure blots and stains thereof;
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say
the Moor is defective in: now, for want of these
Of that true hand that fought Rome's quarrel out,
But know not how to do it.
Or rather swaying more upon our part
And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that
And with an accent tuned in selfsame key
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
'Tis but a little way that I can bring you;
What did thy song bode, lady?
Can hide you from our messengers of war,
To bear your griefs yourself and leave me out;
'Here may you see the tyrant.'
heir-apparent? should I turn upon the true prince?
Because the law hath ta'en revenge on them.
Hath banish'd me, his daughter?
My mistress is my mistress; this myself,
That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth--
Like aqua-vitae with a midwife.
Are now so sure that nothing can dissolve us.
And, acting this in an obedient hope,
The prescript of this scroll: our fortune lies
Enter LORD STANLEY
Throws the dishes at them, and drives them out
And straight am nothing: but whate'er I be,
Thou art my warrior;
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?
How thou hast met us here, who three hours since
Between the king and you; and to deliver,
ANTIPHOLUS
'Tis mightiest in the mightiest: it becomes
and undoes description to do it.
to the king's exchequer.
To grace this latter age with noble deeds.
Enter LYCHORIDA, with an Infant
Well then, sustain him: O!
How, sir, how!
Not I, till Mutius' bones be buried.
As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
They say it is a copy out of mine. Come, captain,
For what advancement may I hope from thee
There left behind and settled certain French;
Who ever knew the heavens menace so?
Dies
As now again to snatch our palm from palm,
For your dwelling,--briefly.
SCENE IV. The same. Before the palace.
SCENE II. The street before the prison.
Ay, sir, and very learned.
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
Made him joint-servant with me; gave him way
I shall remember more. Bid him--ah, what?--
That was not born of woman? Such a one
Hark you! they come this way.
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Thinking to bar thee of succession, as
By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves,
But by and by comes back to Romeo,
May not one speak?
everlasting liberty if I tell you of it; for he
The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.
Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
Marry, we were sent for to the justices.
Or hand of man hath done; therefore I keep it
Indeed I weigh not you, and therefore light.
[Within]         Ho, daughter! are you up?
What mean your graces? Good my friends, consider
And subjects punish'd that ne'er thought offence:
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
like the plot, Trinculo?
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the people
He took good rest to-night;
At my poor house look to behold this night
Of prison gates;
Nay, but you part in anger.
I tell thee, Catesby--
And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof,
Warwick and Clarence give me both your hands:
by threes. He's to make his requests by
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
Aside
Flourish. Exeunt
What then?
To love the Moor.
Who talks within there? ho, open the door!
Sometime puts forth. In your affairs, my lord,
Thou dost affect my manners, and dost use them.
Than what he chooses.
stings, our unbitted lusts, whereof I take this that
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
thee straight,
Unto the sweet bird's throat,
Than what you hear of: come more, for more
Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
Stand forth, Dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloucester's wife:
And leave the world for me to bustle in!
I am more bound to you than your fellows, for they
Enter GLOUCESTER, brought in by two or three
Nor once be chastised with the sober eye
'Conscience,' say I, 'you counsel well;' ' Fiend,'
Her new-built virtue and obedience.
And so do I too, lieutenant.
Thames? Well, if I be served such another trick,
Ay, so please your majesty. The Duke of Exeter has
I'd have them whipped; or I would send them to the
You must not dare, for shame, to talk of mercy;
Exeunt DULL and JAQUENETTA
We make ourselves fools, to disport ourselves;
Was ever book containing such vile matter
When I do rouse me in my throne of France:
Enter KING RICHARD
Which they upon the adverse party want.
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, for Hector
I think it be, sir; I deny it not.
To suffer lawful censure for such faults
Shall I obtain it?
Cannot be!
Nothing but odds with England: to that end,
And keeps the oath which by that god he swears,
Or made gift of it, my father's eye
To praise him more than ever man did merit:
and then have to't a fresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man
The chastity he wounded. Cytherea,
A thing devised by the enemy.
My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
Again to sleep.
is the next way to give poor jades the bots: this
Was given me by one that had some power,
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
With other gentlemen of good esteem,
But fear the main intendment of the Scot,
Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters: as they
Wilt thou reach stars, because they shine on thee?
Exit
First, for I cannot flatter thee in pride;
more was this knight swearing by his honour, for he
To any sovereign state throughout the world.
Of us must Pompey presently be sought,
I was not born to die on Brutus' sword.
SCENE I. France. Before Harfleur.
Enter PRINCE HENRY, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
Pray you, go fit you to the custom and
Come, come, Antipholus, we dine too late.
Will'd me to leave my base vocation
That all the court may echo with the noise.
blasted woods,
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead?
As many lines close in the dial's centre;
Requires nor child nor woman's face to see.
To stand on either part.
Be merry, for our time of stay is short
Cressida's?
Belonging to whom?
And not the very king. I have two boys
If Richard will be true, not that alone
That lies enclosed in this trunk which you
What is't, my lord? we will.
What meanest thou by that, Malvolio?
To have some conference with your grace alone.
Masters, play here; I will content your pains;
The king, that calls your beauteous daughter wife.
Foix, Lestrale, Bouciqualt, and Charolois;
And harmful pity must be laid aside.
Leave us to ourselves; and make yourself some comfort
O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses,
By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
For you shall hop without my custom, sir:
and then judge of my merit.
am: the violet smells to him as it doth to me: the
That's on some shallow story of deep love:
Dead.
As Agamemnon and the hand of Greece
That she would soon be here.
With trial-fire touch me his finger-end:
By Roderigo.
My lord, I rescued her;
'Tis too respective and too sociable
The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind
What 'unjust'!
Of my petition.
Soundly, my lord.
Be not dismay'd, fair lady; nor misconstrue
my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this
To you, preferring you before her father,
A lad of life, an imp of fame;
We shall have each a hundred Englishmen.
As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy,
None, sir; I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
some that take upon them to know, or do take upon
With some delight or other.
Think upon what hath chanced, and, at more time,
Am I not witch'd like her? or thou not false like him?
So newly join'd in love, so strong in both,
My lord, I must confess I know this woman:
arrant cowards, there's no equity stirring: there's
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished;'
Supply his life, or that which can command it.
Second trumpet
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
Runs in your veins; and my thrice-puissant liege
That now I aim at.
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
In sooth he might; then, if he were my brother's,
Have you inform'd them sithence?
Whom they have ravish'd must by me be slain.
Rather than envy you.
That we, the sons and children of this isle,
Peace! we'll hear him.
When the best hint was given him, he not took't,
To give this poor petition to the king,
With silken streamers the young Phoebus fanning:
Exit
I'll lay my head to any good man's hat,
Do climate here! You have a holy father,
Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber. O,
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
Thou hast suborn'd the goldsmith to arrest me.
Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggers
His going I could frame to serve my turn,
Young York he is but boot, because both they
heart as I can bid the other four farewell, I should
That rheumatic diseases do abound:
By my advice, all humbled on your knees,
That columbine.
You would for paradise break faith, and troth;
you and desire you, to con them by to-morrow night;
Though you and all the rest so grossly led
Ghosts
A maid, they say.
And Hymen now with luckier issue speed's
Let his deservings and my love withal
Loved me above the measure of a father;
Send your trunk to me; it shall safe be kept,
ruinous disorders, follow us disquietly to our
Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself
So, so; rub on, and kiss the mistress. How now!
and lady dear!'
Farewell, young lords; these warlike principles
To thee, Posthumus.
Did graciously plead for his funerals:
But your legs should do it.
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, and Attendants
for, I assure thee, and almost with tears I speak
Heaven would in little show.
According to the statute of the town,
signior: fare you well.
My father gave him welcome to the shore;
the very yea and the no is, the French doctor, my
Saddle my horses; call my train together:
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II and train
A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich;
What present hast thou there?
As fear not but you shall,--show her this ring;
husband had him of. What do you call your knight's
What's thine own name?
Kate, the elder I wax, the better I shall appear:
And made what work I pleased: 'tis not my blood
I am dying, Egypt, dying; only
He did: and with an absolute 'Sir, not I,'
If they were his assistants, yea or no;
In a wide sea of wax: no levell'd malice
ACT I
Even she; Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero:
For know, my lords, the states of Christendom,
By violent swiftness, that which we run at,
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks?
Nay, good my lord, be not afraid of shadows.
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
And let me show you him that made the will.
remember me, his name is Falstaff: if that man
To VIOLA
That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
They say, in care of your most royal person,
Against the wind a mile! You souls of geese,
DON
Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend!
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
What is that noise?
From whence, fragment?
O, be removed from him, and answer well!
For every pelting, petty officer
You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams;
I can no more: live thou to joy thy life;
New hatch'd to the woeful time: the obscure bird
Of such a winnow'd purity in love;
I speak not like a dotard nor a fool,
Which shackles accidents and bolts up change;
Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods!
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear:
should be thought a coward: but his few bad words
It is not likely
Search out thy wit for secret policies,
That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites
The thing I have forsworn to grant may never
no longer in monument than the bell rings and the
Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
That's I, an't like your grace:
I grant I am a woman; but withal
I have great matters to impart to thee.
He needs not; it is no hidden virtue in him.
But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,
Ere he express himself, or move the people
They are a sweet society of fair ones.
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
Than shame to the Romans: and we here deliver,
The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
Kneels to THAISA
You will not own it.
I'll do well yet. Thou old and true Menenius,
Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother;
friend of mine.
Do come to Dunsinane:'  and now a wood
My lord, I have consider'd with myself
list of a country's fashion: we are the makers of
Then deputy of Ireland; who removed,
We here create you Earl of Shrewsbury;
Then, heaven, set ope thy everlasting gates,
Employ'd you where high profits might come home,
And give direction: and do but see his vice;
You mistake; I mean the pound,--a pinfold.
incharitable dog!
Both one and other he denies me now.
I will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall I?
Their bands i' the vaward are the Antiates,
Now, by my hood, a Gentile and no Jew.
SPOKEN BY PROSPERO
And by the doom of death end woes and all.
Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean,
but twelve persons there; is this true?
The tomb is opened
Exit
foolish ear.
May this be possible? may this be true?
What were I best to say? her father's brother
Why wither not the leaves the sap being gone?
To lead him where he would: his roguish madness
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
How shall she know my griefs? I'll drop the paper:
Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
ACT IV
Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
of the prison; give him leave to escape hence, he
Of him I was about to call his father--
shoe him himself. I am much afeard my lady his
Which when he has a house, he'll deck withal
How do you, Cassio? O, a chair, a chair!
Married in league, coupled and linked together
With what he would say, let him feel your sword,
And satisfy the deputy with the visage
All that which Henry Fifth had gotten?
My mother gave it me.
At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand,
What do you think?
Benedick bear it, pluck off the bull's horns and set
Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleased
When first they put the name of king upon me,
Prithee, say on:
Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile,
The low Posthumus slanders so her judgment
As 'twere from us all, a man distill'd
cony-catched in this business: I dare swear this
For nothing but his majesty's approach.
News, madam;
Singing
I would sing my song without a burden: thou bringest
To execute the charge my father gave me
Speak, gentle niece, what stern ungentle hands
Are you a man? have you a soul or sense?
I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher
Let them be in the hands--
And thy assistance, is King Richard seated;
Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
Yet am I sick for fear: speak it again;
Thou, Julia, thou hast metamorphosed me,
My lord, will't please you pass along?
Fie, fie! they are not to be named, my lord,
Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would
They stand at the door, master; bid them welcome hither.
I fear you not.
Thou makest the triumviry, the corner-cap of society,
leave his honour and her together. Go thy ways.
For me three thousand ducats.
him. But to answer you as you would be understood;
side her, the Bishops of London and
Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death
Re-enter MACDUFF, with MACBETH's head
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably: come,
had been in his belly, I would have kept such a
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
I task the earth to the like, forsworn Aumerle;
By cutting off your heads: thus hath he sworn
My lord, the mayor of London comes to greet you.
His highness yet doth speak, and holds belief
He wanted pikes to set before his archers;
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
thee profitably.
How it goes here. It fits us therefore ripely
Madam, I'll follow you unto the death.
not such need to hide itself. Let's see: come,
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
Drum afar off
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve:
Have you not set them on?
O, be thou damn'd, inexecrable dog!
let them coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks:
So I do, madonna; but to read his right wits is to
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
lovers: seldom but that pity begets you a good
Which soon he granted,
If thou be found by me, thou art but dead.
My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody.
In my voluptuousness: your wives, your daughters,
By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected
must leave them, and seek some better service:
Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends;
I would not be sir Nob in any case.
Wit, an't be thy will, put me into good fooling!
Upon whose faith and honour I repose.
Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd
He fables not; I hear the enemy:
boot, can never amend.
The enfranchisement of Arthur; whose restraint
wish him to her father.
'Too young' and 'the next year' and ''tis too early.'
Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen,
Which of the two was daughter of the duke
Familiar in his mouth as household words
The throned monarch better than his crown;
Think it a bastard, whom the oracle
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
Tokens and letters which she did re-send;
And to that end we wish'd your lord-ship here,
kill King Pericles; and if I do it not, I am sure to
Upon his face an ocean of salt tears,
Ghost
That, by killing of villains,
No.
No more o' that;
The Dauphin's meaning and our embassy?
Hautboys playing loud music. A great banquet  served in; FLAVIUS and others attending; then enter  TIMON, ALCIBIADES, Lords, Senators, and VENTIDIUS.  Then comes, dropping, after all, APEMANTUS, discontentedly, like himself
Makes it take head from all indifferency,
This man shall set me packing:
[Aside]  Though this be madness, yet there is method
So, now dismiss your army when ye please:
Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?
To pluck his indignation on thy head
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
He is, and feasts the nobles of the state
And worthily, my falsehood! yea, as much
O, then, I see, you will part but with light gifts;
This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon; go.
king, thou art poor enough. What wouldst thou?
God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
tender juvenal?
Now, my lord, what shall we do, if we perceive
Hark further.
To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth?
In hateful practise. First, his integrity
And mine, my lord.
And, for the ways are dangerous to pass,
Villain, forbear.
Comfort, good comfort! We must to the king and show
So sharp are hunger's teeth, that man and wife
matter: an old man, sir, and his wits are not so
lady. Tell me your mind: I am a messenger.
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter trumpets, sounding; then two Aldermen, Lord  Mayor, Garter, CRANMER, NORFOLK with his marshal's  staff, SUFFOLK, two Noblemen bearing great  standing-bowls for the christening-gifts; then  four Noblemen bearing a canopy, under which the  Duchess of Norfolk, godmother, bearing the child  richly habited in a mantle,  and c., train borne by a  Lady; then follows the Marchioness Dorset, the  other godmother, and Ladies. The troop pass once about the stage, and Garter speaks
What means your lordship?
The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier,
Unto this bar and royal interview,
Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.
Anon!
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
If you had pleased to have defended it
You must provide to bottom it on me;
To make die with a restorative.
you will take it on you to assist him, it shall
Levy great sums of money through the realm
Songs and Sonnets here.
And bid him keep it better than the other.
I am a bastard too; I love bastards: I am a bastard
Now will I stir this gamester: I hope I shall see
You shall to the Tower.
What of you?
But if it be a sin to covet honour,
Came you from Padua, from Bellario?
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
I do profess to be no less than I seem; to serve
To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
Either to die the death or to abjure
Cropp'd are the flower-de-luces in your arms;
have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding.
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk:
Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them:
I did not think thee lord of such a spirit:
And they in France of the best rank and station
Calling him 'Humphrey, the good Duke of
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and SOMERSET
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
memory, nourished in the womb of pia mater, and
Have with you. Fare you well.
May your grace speak of it?
She did show favour to the youth in your sight only
With all the admired beauties of Verona:
So will I never be: so may you miss me;
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
Thou dost deliver more or less than truth,
Until the golden circuit on my head,
Ruffian, let go that rude uncivil touch,
Had princes sit, like stars, about his throne,
What have we here?
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
Lust is but a bloody fire,
Benedicite!
To view the artillery and munition;
description, level at my affection.
I tell thee, my master is become a hot lover.
I have a mind presages me such thrift,
'O, farewell, Warwick!'
O, sir, I can be modest.
go into this closet: he will not stay long.
His blows are well disposed: there, Ajax!
I kill'd a man, whose death I much repent;
To what we fear of death.
Be swift like lightning in the execution;
My lord, your loving nephew now is come.
On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward;
marriage than the love of the parties.
I never did incense his majesty
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
I did, my lord.
Of beauty's tutors have enrich'd you with?
Whose virtue and whose general graces speak
Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will.
And, madam, you must call him Rutland now:
Come hither, Hubert. O my gentle Hubert,
as your French crown for your taffeta punk, as Tib's
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
Enter three or four, and offer to bind him. He strives
Whose father bears the title of a king,--
Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
The rather, for I think I know your hostess
O, what may man within him hide,
sluttishness may come hereafter. But be it as it may
death: her death itself, which could not be her
Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and
If he be less, he's nothing; but he's more,
Which the poor heart would fain deny, and dare not. Seyton!
The duke is humorous; what he is indeed,
I thought, by your readiness in the office, you had
on't: this shall end without the perdition of souls.
Would I were dead, but that, methinks, already--
Weary and old with service, to the mercy
To what is passed already.
Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,
This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy,
Foul weather?
A thousand pieces.
But let me hear from you.
I came to kill thee, cousin, and bear hence
And, by that virtue, no man dare accuse you.
Re-enter Servant with boots
The night before there was no purpose in them
Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,
Let never day nor night unhallow'd pass,
A most fine figure!
Exeunt
God-den to you all, god-den to you all.
To every idle rascal follower.
have possessed her.
oeillades; sometimes the beam of her view gilded my
To force him after: in whose company
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;
Give me some drink; and bid the apothecary
Your nobles will not hear you, but are gone
In gait and countenance surely like a father.
rude multitude call the afternoon.
Note, notes, forsooth, and nothing.
Can any way speak in his just commend;
And fashion'd thee that instrument of ill,
Give fire: she is my prize, or ocean whelm them all!
Kingdoms and provinces.
Should now eat up her own!
What, is Antonio here?
The wall is high, and yet will I leap down:
'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
Let them be welcome then: we are prepared.
And every day that comes comes to decay
Allons! allons! Sow'd cockle reap'd no corn;
To heal Rome's harms, and wipe away her woe!
Where biting cold would never let grass grow,
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
O, but one word.
pathetical break-promise and the most hollow lover
To send for Titus Lartius, it remains,
Very true, and but a month old.
For a worthy lady
So sweet and voluble is his discourse.
I know what 'tis to love;
As broad Achilles; keeps his tent like him;
It to be stirr'd; but oft have hinder'd, oft,
You may jest on, but, by the holy rood,
said to a niece of King Gorboduc, 'That that is is;'
All, sirrah, all:
Whose ignorant credulity will not
I think it be no other but e'en so:
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
Lie in a pitch'd field.
Prithee, return: with thy approach, I know,
And shut myself up in some other course,
See, ruthless queen, a hapless father's tears:
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
Call Buckingham, and all the friends thou hast,
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.
Worthy Andronicus, ill art thou repaid
Why, that is nothing: for I tell you, father,
To visit her poor castle where she lies,
[Aside]  How say you by that? Still harping on my
Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
Be woe for me, more wretched than he is.
Look in a glass, and call thy image so:
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place,
Of human dealings. If I do prove her haggard,
You shall read us the will, Caesar's will.
Have just our theme of woe; but for the miracle,
To Roger Earl of March, who was the son
I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
Was as a scorpion to her sight; whose life,
They never flatter'd thee: what hast thou given?
of a lazar, so I were not Menelaus! Hey-day!
To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;
Do you mark that, my lord?
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
is basest, doth tread. I shall be forsworn, which
Caesar!
Will issue out again and bid us battle:
Out of the powerful regions under earth,
The Lady Anne pass from her coronation?
And that no lawful means can carry me
She is a woman, therefore may be woo'd;
What's worse than murderer, that I may name it?
Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
For the mutable, rank-scented many, let them
As I wish you were.
possitable, if you can carry her your desires
So well I know my duty to my elders.
And in regard of causes now in hand,
With only suffering stain by him; for him
I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
truepenny?
Her life was beast-like, and devoid of pity;
dully by us. I will in the interim undertake one of
The question did at first so stagger me,
But keep a farm and carters.
Are you not stronger than you were?
Exit
Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum,
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost,
You, that have so fair parts of woman on you,
so many talents, nay, urged extremely for't and
My noble lord--
To have her name repeated: all her deserving
That my report is just and full of truth.
Then did the sun on dunghill shine.
She vaunted 'mongst her minions t'other day,
Now, until the break of day,
And that shall bail me; hie thee, slave, be gone!
You have fought together.
Shylock, there's thrice thy money offer'd thee.
Lest, growing ruinous, the building fall
And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.
Well, thereby hangs a tale: good faith, it is such
Welcome to Cyprus.
That can thy light relume. When I have pluck'd the rose,
Thy now unsured assurance to the crown,
The measure then of one is easily told.
This hideous rashness: answer my life my judgment,
You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
As easily as a king.
To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
Such troops of citizens to speak with him,
What hope is there of his majesty's amendment?
Enter RICHARD, EDWARD, and MONTAGUE
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow cell!
sinews, or else there be liars. Hector have a great
They draw
Art thou his friend?
Prithee, let him alone; we shall have more anon.
My most dear lord!
When he might spurn him with his foot away?
be his heir, for what he hath taken away from thy
Know you how much the people may be moved
What kind of help?
Now does my project gather to a head:
But we will visit you at supper-time.
As if I had never been such.
that's no matter, the greater part carries it. I
a fair hot wench in flame-coloured taffeta, I see no
And twice as much, whate'er thou offer'st next.
What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
Let Ajax go to him.
With heigh! the doxy over the dale,
More active-valiant or more valiant-young,
Exeunt BIONDELLO, TRANIO, and Pedant, as fast as may be
I hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
For, O, love's bow
I see thy age and dangers make thee dote.
No, in good troth, Bianca.
certainty, put myself into my mortal preparation;
For thou set'st on thy wife.
the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out
An uproar, I dare warrant,
The sum is paid; the traitors are agreed;
I think your highness saw this many a day.
In what case?
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed,
Gave Hector a gift, the heir of Ilion;
Yes, faith; it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy
If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
This is strange. Who hath got the right Anne?
In praises sauced with lies.
He.
Bears all down with her brain; and this her son
And yet we have but trivial argument,
And these two Dromios, one in semblance,--
Not Erebus itself were dim enough
Come, follow. Speak not for him.
What's to come is still unsure:
Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man:
them bravely, quite traverse, athwart the heart of
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.
Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have
Pistol him, pistol him.
Told our intents before; which once disclosed,
Exit
Before we met or that a stroke was given,
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
Why are thine eyes fixed to the sullen earth,
Return them, we are ready; and our daughter,
piety, as shall be proved upon thee by good witness.
In a litigious peace. You, and your lady,
No more?
To your professed bosoms I commit him
Which is the Queen of Egypt?
When she did starve the general world beside
My reverence, calling, nor divinity,
Sweet Imogen?
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me:
Shout
To have me fold up Parca's fatal web?
overfar believe that, yet thus far I will boldly
Here, Peter Quince.
Balk logic with acquaintance that you have
Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill;
sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit
Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
Between her heart and lips: she render'd life,
Knows he of this?
O, the better, sir; for he that drinks all night,
If you will lead these graces to the grave
I follow you.
These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies:
They be alone.
His fears were, that the interview betwixt
From ashes ancient Gower is come;
Will think me speaking, though I swear to silence;
And might not gain so great a happiness
And ever, as it blazed, they threw on him
Why, do 'e take it, and the gods give thee good on't!
As surely as I live, my lord.
Why, then to thee, thou silver treasure-house;
Thinking that I mean him, but therein suits
For my heart speaks they are welcome.
Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
ANTIPHOLUS
First, noble friend,
I understand thee not.
SCENE I. Troy. Priam's palace.
My message must return from whence it came.
Make thee the father of their idle dreams
progression, hath miscarried. Trip and go, my
Now will I write letters to Angelo,--
Come, come, enter my tent.
My lord,
Let senses rule; the word is 'Pitch and Pay:'
With my two daughters' dowers digest this third:
Like rats that ravin down their proper bane,
That in their sleeps will mutter their affairs:
As full of valour as of royal blood:
To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot
That very time I saw, but thou couldst not,
Had borne the action of yourself, or else
I say gud-day, Captain Fluellen.
Stronger than ever law could make: this secret
To speak unto this city: what say you?
my house; thither they send one another: I'll
your worship shall know by this honest old man; and,
And bashful Henry deposed, whose cowardice
Which if they do, yet will I keep thee safe,
Which though myself would gladly have embraced,
Mark you this, people?
If you did know, my lord, my master's wants--
BISHOP
That used me so; or else, by Jove I vow,
I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!
Upon the wounds his body bears, which show
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so: up
Ascend, brave Talbot; we will follow thee.
For on thy fortune I repose myself.
For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,
So feat, so nurse-like: let his virtue join
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
But sea-room, an the brine and cloudy billow kiss
But wilt thou not speak all thou knowest?
home indeed?
Ha!
Ay, marry, what of these?
Good name in man and woman, dear my lord,
That never mean to part.
worship's presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant
Why linger we? let us lay hands upon him.
And so will I.
Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
Or seeming so in skill, cannot or will not
My goods, my lands, my reputation;
One vice, but of a minute old, for one
Re-enter TITUS LARTIUS
Which ye shall never have while I live.
we some strange Indian with the great tool come to
ere you're ware: you'll be so true to him, to be
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MECAENAS, with his Army; OCTAVIUS CAESAR reading a letter
And take down the interest into their
Vailing her high-top lower than her ribs
ACT I
Be nothing of our strife; if we contend,
Thy griefs their sports, thy resolution mock'd;
Will serve to strangle thee, a rush will be a beam
Cannot make boast to have that which he hath,
O honey nurse, what news?
Whose want gives growth to the imperfections
The sun to course two hundred compasses,
Though well we may not pass upon his life
to-morrow, Sir Toby.
And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do?
Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh:
I cannot say the words.
I thought you had been willing to resign.
And where thou art not, desolation.
KING HENRY enters with his power. Alarum to the battle. Then enter DOUGLAS and SIR WALTER BLUNT
some goose, in this.
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
Tut, that's a foolish observation:
Whereto we are bound? alack, or we must lose
shift for one; and so, God's curse light upon you
I love the lovely bully. What is thy name?
By my troth, 's but a night-gown in respect of
I had rather be a kitten and cry mew
KING HENRY VIII kisses the child
O thou dissembling cub! what wilt thou be
No sooner was I crept out of my cradle
As I! foh! fie upon thee!
To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself
I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious
Enough, I am engaged; I will challenge him. I will
Ay, dat is very good; excellent.
Unwhipp'd of justice: hide thee, thou bloody hand;
And by a gem of women, to be abused
Experience, manhood, honour, ne'er before
O most insatiate and luxurious woman!
What? what?
Enter a third Gentleman
I am about to weep; but, thinking that
A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that
That these great towers, trophies and schools
Exit
Little.
To weep their intermissive miseries.
First, for his weeping into the needless stream;
Where she at least is banish'd from your eye,
Didst thou not mark the king, what words he spake,
predeceased valour and dare not avouch in your deeds
Thou dearest Perdita,
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
You're a made old man: if the sins of your youth
And let it keep one shape, till custom make it
I would on great occasion speak with you.
Alas! he gets nothing by that. In our last
Caesar and Antony shall well greet together:
Methought you said you neither lend nor borrow
As well assured Richard their king is dead.
Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know
the hangman boys in the market-place: and then I
could wish he would modestly examine himself, to see
Francis!
Spake he so doubtfully, thou couldst not feel his meaning?
On your displeasure's peril and on mine,
I will never take you for my love again; but I will
Then none have I offended. I have done no more to
Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.
Signior Lodovico?
This hand should chop it off, and with the
Is worthy praise: but, shall I speak my conscience,
A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,
And send the hearers weeping to their beds:
a good turn.
As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd
my way: but I would it were morning; for I would
That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril,
Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
That roan shall by my throne.
Sent from your brother, Marquess Montague:
at Master Page's.
courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I
Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks he
Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
And thus she is deliver'd.
adorer, not her friend.
Bringing the murderous coward to the stake;
Exit
Then I must be thy lady: but I know
Your own renowned knowledge; quite forego
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
Enter Tailor
To think, when thou shalt be disedged by her
Made known herself my daughter.
The untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster.
First let me talk with this philosopher.
SCENE III. Tarsus. A room in CLEON's house.
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make
More than my body's parting with my soul!
But now 'tis odds beyond arithmetic;
One bred of alms and foster'd with cold dishes,
Here grow no damned grudges; here are no storms,
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven?
O, tell me, did you see Aaron the Moor?
Help, hold his brows! he'll swoon! Why look you pale?
From me receive that natural competency
Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace,
Then say if they be true. This mis-shapen knave,
It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus
My cake is dough; but I'll in among the rest,
Half-blooded fellow, yes.
The ample proposition that hope makes
content to do the profession some grace; that would,
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
Let them be free, marry them to your heirs?
What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
Of you, my gentle cousin Westmoreland,
Two households, both alike in dignity,
Exit running; Attendants follow
young days. Why, I am going with my pigeons to the
[Aside]  I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and
that I dropped to betray him: he does smile his
Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
First, rehearse your song by rote
May Iden live to merit such a bounty.
filth as thou art. Thou hast most traitorously
And time to speak it in: you rub the sore,
Now, for a while farewell, good Duke of York.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, MECAENAS, GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, and others, his council of war
than lack it where there is such abundance.
So may your highness, and yet punish too.
And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back
Speak to me; I shall answer for her.
To fair content and you: none here, he hopes,
Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you:
Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
That Hubert, for the wealth of all the world,
Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.
I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.
Had I but died an hour before this chance,
To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.
Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of
For if he'll do as he is made to do,
The unhappy son of old Andronicus:
Toward thee forgetfulness too general, gross:
Than can yourself yourself in twain divide:
Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
Because my book preferr'd me to the king,
Why with some little train, my Lord of Buckingham?
I should be false persuaded I had daughters.
[Reads]  'Imprimis, a loose-bodied gown:'
They did not bless us with one happy word.
What, art thou mad? art thou mad? is not the truth
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
He is, Sir John: I fear we shall stay too long.
As fast as they are made, forgot as soon
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS.
You were now running o'er: you have scarce time
Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
good voice, sir; what say you?
anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.
Fidele, sir.
Ruthful to hear, yet piteously perform'd:
Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius,
She is spread of late
And this is mine: sweet Henry, favour him.
Why, so: you have made good work!
Ay; and you'll look pale
pardonner! Je suis gentilhomme de bonne maison:
You that way and you this, but two in company;
Never came poison from so sweet a place.
Why, no; the day had broke
Hast strangely stood the test here, afore Heaven,
Cannot be question'd.
Perjury, perjury, in the high'st degree
Ah, Clifford, murder not this innocent child,
A word with you.
belongs to a watch.
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and others
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
At fortune's alms. You have obedience scanted,
You know that you are Brutus that speak this,
May here find truth too. Those that come to see
proportion to live quietly, and so give over.
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
This man has marr'd his fortune.
It was the pleasure of my lord the King.
Patience herself, what goddess e'er she be,
Exeunt HUBERT with PETER
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves:'
Nay, prithee, dispatch: the gentleman is half
You are a merry man, sir: fare you well.
Many a poor man's son would have lien still
You are at point to lose your liberties:
Worthy the owner, and the owner it.
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,
Speak, citizens, for England; who's your king?
to the world's end will have bald followers.
Where horses have been nimbler than the sands
Lies rich in virtue and unmingled.
Here on my knee I vow to God above,
Caius and Valentine, lay hands on them.
It is for you we speak, not for ourselves:
If York have ill demean'd himself in France,
That what you cannot as you would achieve,
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget
Liege of all loiterers and malcontents,
Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked
Hath he not a son?
I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true;
Are they so? God bless them and make them his servants!
The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours
I could not answer in that course of honour
By my troth, I would not undertake her in this
Lie every man holds dear; but the brave man
Youngling, learn thou to make some meaner choice:
As you fly from your oft-subdued slaves.
But how, my lord, shall we resist it now?
Well, I say no: and therefore for assurance
Thou know'st that we two went to school together:
O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower,
revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
Most generous and free from all contriving,
painted blind, with a muffler afore her eyes, to
Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret.
Now, good master doctor!
riding to London with fat purses: I have vizards
O Antony! O Antony!
then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
Presuming on an ague's privilege,
At his distemperature.
The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
Bleed, bleed, poor country!
Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward,
Traduced by odious ballads: my maiden's name
My mate, that's never to be found again,
The name of Agincourt. Yet sit and see,
'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her;
Say their great enemy is gone, and they
'Your--wife, so I would say--
I come to wive it wealthily in Padua;
I do beseech you, sir, trouble yourself no further.
Even in a minute: so full of shapes is fancy
Francis Flute, the bellows-mender.
honest a 'omans as I will desires among five
SCENE II. Another room in the palace.
More welcome is the stroke of death to me
We are a queen, or long have dream'd so, certain
Falls in
What wills Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy.
And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on?
Now, sweet lord,
see her beautiful.
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants,
There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
Here come the clusters.
Alas, poor ghost!
I'll keep you company.
A traitor you do look like; but such traitors
Wherefore shouldst thou pity her?
I do not without danger walk these streets:
Let me go, sir,
thief this seven year; a' goes up and down like a
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
And they, well mock'd, depart away with shame.
Haply, in private.
lost a ship.
I have had my labour for my travail; ill-thought on of
Might equal yours, if both were justly weigh'd.
for I think you have no money in your purse.
Willing you to demand your hostages,
Will have his will, and she must fall.
Like to a ship that, having 'scaped a tempest,
and the parent; death, dearth, dissolutions of
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
Carnally, she says.
Never, my lord.
Exit
Among which terms he used his lavish tongue
Mistress of passion, sways it to the mood
Have lost their quality, and that this day
[Reads]  'Item, That no woman shall come within a
The reasons are more potent and heroical:
the form of a beast. O Jove, a beastly fault! And
Let floods o'erswell, and fiends for food howl on!
Say 'tis not so, a province I will give thee,
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard.
have no more of this; let's to our affairs.--Forgive
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
them in my forehead: and let me be vilely painted,
To join your hearts in love and amity.
God comfort thee! Why dost thou smile so and kiss
Exit SIMPLE
Come, come, be every one officious
Your first is dead; or 'twere as good he were,
And left thee to the mercy of the law.
My lord, what I have done, as best I may,
Or have a woman to your lord:
Laid to thy answer: but the last,--O lords,
Before you open it.
A plain kerchief, Sir John: my brows become nothing
Exeunt
thankfully. I will piece out the comfort with what
That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
Upon the corner of the moon
I hope I shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another.
Your husband is at hand; I hear his trumpet:
Make holiday; your rye-straw hats put on
[Aside]  O, give ye good even! here's a million of manners.
Who makes the fairest show means most deceit.
Ask her forgiveness?
Did ever love so dearly: let her live
Whose house, whose bed, whose meal, and exercise,
For that it stands not in such warlike brace,
Shall he dwindle, peak and pine:
If that her breath will mist or stain the stone,
O my dear brother!
Exit DUKE
Gone to be married! gone to swear a peace!
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
That they devour their reason and scarce think
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
at home for you.
Should lose their names, and so should justice too.
You have, by fortune and his highness' favours,
But cold demeanor in Octavius' wing,
Unless, by not so doing, our good city
Environ you, till mischief and despair
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
Is there no remedy?
You are too blunt: go to it orderly.
His hand to wield a sceptre, and himself
And paved with gold, the emperor thus desired,
With full and holy rite be minister'd,
But this eternal blazon must not be
No, no, my heart will burst, and if I speak:
Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
And being seated, and domestic broils
By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little
Enter PETRUCHIO and HORTENSIO with meat
What a block art thou, that thou canst not! My
Here shall he see No enemy
Seek him with candle; bring him dead or living
And vanish'd from our sight.
I did not think to be so sad to-night
In an odd angle of the isle and sitting,
losing the flood, lose thy voyage, and, in losing
ANTIPHOLUS
It pleaseth me so well, that I will see you wed;
Music within. Enter a Servingman
If he be credulous and trust my tale,
Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
What horrible fancy's this?
And call it cunning: do, an if you will:
Our states are forfeit: seek not to undo us.
Exeunt
Rating myself at nothing, you shall see
With most admired disorder.
Have we march'd on without impediment;
Whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn.
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
He lies to-night within seven leagues of Rome.
Enter a Scrivener, with a paper in his hand
Your name, sir, truly.
bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
Exeunt
Turns to restraint. Our natures do pursue,
That warranteth by law to be thy privilege.
This is a most majestic vision, and
Take but possession of her with a touch:
Enter GLOUCESTER and his DUCHESS
for the phrase!
What Antony shall speak, I will protest
True, sir; she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
They fight
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
A goodly city is this Antium. City,
We have lingered about a match between Anne Page and
Praising what is lost
Wherein I did not some notorious ill,
Mine honest friend,
Kills for faults of his own liking!
Which lay nice manners by, I put you to
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
tuft of earth; fire enough for a flint, pearl enough
And beat the messenger who bids beware
Another dowry to another daughter,
That hath express'd himself in all his deeds
And here from gracious England have I offer
And in compassion weep the fire out;
That would I know too: I warrant, one that knows him not.
If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.
Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
Sir, in Argier.
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
kind of men, the less you meddle or make with them,
In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?
That, with the fusty plebeians, hate thine honours,
To LAUNCE
I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword
ACT III
Enter TITUS dressed like a Cook, LAVINIA veiled,  Young LUCIUS, and others. TITUS places the dishes on the table
Our lamp is spent, it's out! Good sirs, take heart:
Soldiers, adieu! I have what I would have,
lost his A B C; to weep, like a young wench that had
cunning to be great, that could restore this cripple
'Item, If any man be seen to talk with a woman
She, whom the spital-house and ulcerous sores
promise of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb,
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
do it with unwashed hands too.
Exit SELEUCUS
Have we ramm'd up our gates against the world.
and Poins; he is of too high a region; he knows too
And she will speak most bitterly and strange.
Should 'scape the true acquaintance of mine ear.
lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
The images of revolt and flying off.
let me in.
To CLEOPATRA
So great as our dread father in a scale
You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
To taste of thy most worst? Thy tyranny
[Aside]  A' must needs; for beggary is valiant.
Is now again thwarting the wayward seas,
Not I, till I have sheathed
But is he often thus?
I will return again into the house and desire some
Why he more than another?
jack, upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a
in the stable.
With caution that the Florentine will move us
With vile participation: not an eye
Hardly conceive of me; let it be noised
When gold and silver becks me to come on.
There is no help;
Yes, they have.
I think, this coming summer, the King of Sicilia
From flowery tenderness? If I must die,
Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold
What, have his daughters brought him to this pass?
Ah! and did they so?
Be simple answerer, for we know the truth.
Held current music too.
Amen: I thank thee.
What do you think the hour?
Your father was ever virtuous; and holy men at their
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might?--No more:--
Hie, good Sir Michael; bear this sealed brief
He writes his name with his staff, and guides it with feet and mouth
she's a fair lady: I do spy some marks of love in
And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this,
Madam, we'll dance.
And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds,
There's some in hope.
in mine eyes too, and such an ache in my bones
In lieu of this last night did lie with me.
The commoners, for whom we stand, but they
You are an alchemist; make gold of that.
Or else to heaven she heaves them for revenge.
Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse, from the bay
Three times bestrid him; thrice I led him off,
To answer that, I should confess to you.
Enter POLONIUS
Save you, worthy general!
I'll see before I doubt; when I doubt, prove;
Oui. Sauf votre honneur, en verite, vous prononcez
Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.
What are you?
Enter FASTOLFE
But I should know her as well as she knows me.
Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.
Went he hence now?
Re-enter LUCIUS
To strew thy green with flowers: the yellows, blues,
if you saw him.
she is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in a
This is your wife.
To have a temple built you: all the swords
They are opposed already.
To make this good?
Do seem to be of ours?
Make not too rash a trial of him, for
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
The subject will deserve it. Such as give
Patience herself would startle at this letter
And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light,
kindness to his horse, buttered his hay.
Now, what news on the Rialto?
SCENE II. Southampton. A council-chamber.
Rude, in sooth; in good sooth, very rude.
Conspirant 'gainst this high-illustrious prince;
That made them do it: they are wise and honourable,
I know not where I am, nor what I do;
Bear with my weakness; my, brain is troubled:
Here in my house do him disparagement:
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
Present the fair steed to my lady Cressid:
Here to this devil, to deliver you.
Gloucester, I live
Of that same noble prelate, well beloved,
Before the birds have any cause to sing?
Thereon dependent, for your brother's life,--
high-resolved men, bent to the spoil,
Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if
Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.
unjust knave; I will no more trust him when he leers
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
For fury not to be resisted. Thus defied,
How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
Yea, thrust this enterprise into my heart;
'Tis like you would not feast him like a friend;
Summon a session, that we may arraign
Re-enter PANTHINO
I told you; my lord.
I think he be transform'd into a beast;
Of here and every where. I had a sister,
Lo, what befell! he threw his eye aside,
Who sent it? and what is it?
I warrant it will.
Exeunt
the babe,--
And shall I now give o'er the yielded set?
interlude before the duke and the duchess, on his
What darest thou venture?
O God, I fear thy justice will take hold
Buz in the people's ears, there nought hath pass'd,
and see if you can see my master, Master Doctor
Yet know, my master, God omnipotent,
I have not yet made known to Mariana
Why, man?
you see? look you there: there's no jesting;
Who can be bound by any solemn vow
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
Would make a volume of enticing lines,
poor house; as your pearl in your foul oyster.
The heaviest and the worst
And yet a place of high respect with me,--
It is, such crimson tempest should bedrench
But I shall do thee mischief in the wood.
we two will rail against our mistress the world and
I would I were, to be revenged on thee.
Exeunt
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
In strange concealments, valiant as a lion
Your resolution cannot hold, when 'tis
Know'st thou the way to Dover?
But yet my nature could not bear it so.
My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell;
Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances,
ANTIPHOLUS
Is it come to this?
He meant to lay upon: and his own letter,
eats cow-dung for sallets; swallows the old rat and
pawn till it be brought you.
You were best to tell Antonio what you hear;
Hang me by the neck, if horns that year miscarry.
For I will board her, though she chide as loud
Anon his Thisbe must be answered,
Than ever they were fair. This man so complete,
Where I have took them up.
What said our cousin when you parted with him?
The ladies did change favours: and then we,
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
my daughter: but 'tis no matter; better a little
Worth six on him.
and in him that escapes, it were not sin to think
Of guns and drums and wounds,--God save the mark!--
By how much unexpected, by so much
set on thy horns. O powerful love! that, in some
O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
As meet to be an emperor's counsellor.
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
To him, Patroclus; tell him I humbly desire the
There comes a fellow crying out for help:
To stop the inundation of her tears;
Poison'd, then.
May all the building in my fancy pluck
You writ to the pope against the king: your goodness,
Exeunt some of them
Item, Sack, two gallons, 5s. 8d.
Now, by God's will, thou wrong'st him, Somerset;
Sir, are not you my father?
Come, neighbour: the boy shall lead our horses down
How appears the fight?
ACT IV
But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
The eating canker dwells, so eating love
What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows,
What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?
I will teach the children their behaviors; and I
me on. Yea, but how if honour prick me off when I
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Know ye Don Antonio, your countryman?
Of old I know them; rather with their teeth
Who, having no external thing to lose
And therefore is Love said to be a child,
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
Perchance you think too much of so much pains?
And when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
Ask nothing, give it him, it foals me, straight,
We should hold day with the Antipodes,
It is, my lord.
Exit
Exeunt CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
Have I not reason to prefer mine own?
For, being not propp'd by ancestry, whose grace
So musical a discord, such sweet thunder.
Peace, sirrah!
For hither will our friends repair to us.
Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan
So rare a wonder'd father and a wife
valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion.
am a villain: and yet you will stand to if; you will
Sir, it is;
Now we have shown our power,
Monster, lay-to your fingers: help to bear this
Which thou didst force from Talbot, my brave boy:'
Or, shedding, breed a nursery of like evil,
Sure, you have some hideous matter to deliver, when
smallest article of it, neither in time, matter, or
the search,
He shall have the skin of our enemies, to make
Thus do I hope to shake King Henry's head.
Fetch forth the stocks! As I have life and honour,
Re-enter MARIANA and ISABELLA
Enough, my lord.
Her enemies' marks upon me. I do love
Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
This was his gentleman in trust--of him
Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower;
Well might they fester 'gainst ingratitude,
I am a poor fellow, sir.
search: there I shall find Falstaff: I shall be
My inch of taper will be burnt and done,
These babes for Clarence weep and so do I;
'Some achieve greatness,'--
[Aside]	Amen:
Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd;
Cricket, to Windsor chimneys shalt thou leap:
His only child.
Exeunt
hath found him already.
Their nicely-gawded cheeks to the wanton spoil
Shall govern England.'
The next is, that Sir Thomas More is chosen
And gird thee with the sword. Cousin of York,
That shall be swallow'd in this controversy.
Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time
We'll visit Caliban my slave, who never
A long time out of play, may bring his plainsong
Where is the Dauphin? Come, come from behind;
And last so long enough!
Concern me the reporting.
For many men that stumble at the threshold
to the nurse and bid her still it.
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
Stanley, I prithee, go, and take me hence;
And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
I have fought with thee: so often hast thou beat me,
his grounds of faith that all that look on him love
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity
I cannot find those runagates; that villain
It is in my scabbard: shall I draw it?
I thought, at least, he would have said the king;
after my name; call them all Pandars; let all
It was ourself thou didst abuse.
That dost not bite so nigh
Why, how now, Kate! I hope thou art not mad:
Dearer than Plutus' mine, richer than gold:
I am unfit for state and majesty;
Nor here provincial. My business in this state
O, let me teach thee! for my father's sake,
But who is man that is not angry?
That grew the more by reaping: his delights
And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.
I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of
Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
[Aside to MISTRESS QUICKLY]  'Tis a great charge to
To shun the danger that his soul divines.
Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes,
to care for nothing, sir, I would it would make you invisible.
And by relating tales of others' griefs,
You do prepare to ride unto Saint Alban's,
us, here is that gold I have: I'll make it as much
For where is any author in the world
I will not hear you.
There is means, madam:
And, force perforce, I'll make him yield the crown,
And what's a fever but a fit of madness?
Ah, my sweet Moor, sweeter to me than life!
That were embattailed and rank'd in Kent:
Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter:
This handkercher was stain'd.
O heavy times, begetting such events!
If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.
Not he: but yet heaven's bounty towards him might
Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.
Go, good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacole;
A slave without a knock.
thy lower part where thy nose stands. By mine
Puppet? why so? ay, that way goes the game.
Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus;
Never to taste the pleasures of the world,
Indeed, the French may lay twenty French crowns to
As if increase of appetite had grown
The best-condition'd and unwearied spirit
O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
His sword e'en like a dancer; while I struck
You should in all sense be much bound to him.
And with some other business put the king
Feeling so the loss,
Pays interest for 't; his land's put to their books.
Thanks. What's the matter, you dissentious rogues,
And this shall free thee from this present shame;
That shall be wood and wedded in a day.
Cousin Abraham Slender, can you love her?
Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gait, her voice,
When I shall think: or Phoebus' steeds are founder'd,
Let us all ring fancy's knell
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
'Fore all the Greekish heads, which with one voice
They swell, and grow as terrible as storms.
Enter LADY CAPULET
I slew him there.
To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.
What reason have you for't?
Who knows not that the noble duke is dead?
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
No, for then we should be colliers.
Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
To the vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly.
She's an adulteress; I have said with whom:
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, CASSIUS, and their Army; LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, MESSALA, and others
But meet him now, and, be it in the morn,
This gilded serpent
And angels officed all: I will be gone,
Blush, Blush, thou lump of foul deformity;
The hue of dungeons and the suit of night;
He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold,
Not once, nor twice, but twenty times you have.
I'll keep them, by this hand.
and set London bridge on fire; and, if you can, burn
Had rather have us win than him they follow:
The gods themselves throw incense. Have I caught thee?
Why, there's no remedy; 'tis the curse of service,
One jot of ceremony.
Where have I been! Nay, how now! where are you?
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding fresh
Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast,
The sun is high, and we outwear the day.
To answer all the city.
ANTIPHOLUS
But rather, moody-mad and desperate stags,
Who tells us life's but breath, to trust it error.
Dark as your fortune is, and but disguise
The holy water from her heavenly eyes,
perjury, to call a prince's brother villain.
And so have I a noble father lost;
Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Look, where the youngest wren of nine comes.
Lord, how art thou changed! How dost thou and thy
Why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep?
And nod their heads, and throw their eyes on thee!
What you must say; that he shall not perceive
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
Hear nothing from him.
We are not safe, Clarence; we are not safe.
They quite forget their loss of liberty.
Or not at all.
good piece of flesh indeed! Learn of the wise, and
In several hands, in at his windows throw,
Yet, to have join'd with France in such alliance
Ask what thou wilt. That I had said and done!
Here is the money.
for any lady in Britain. If she went before others
Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
Exeunt MISTRESS QUICKLY and ROBIN
The powers that he already hath in Gallia
My father Glendower is not ready yet,
hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is
Possess it, I'll make answer:
By heaven, the wonder in a mortal eye!
My faith and this the princess I did give:
their brains! that we should, with joy, pleasance
O villain, thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years
No, indeed, is't not; and I would to heaven
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
And to survey the bodies of the dead.
And you, Achilles, let these threats alone,
Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit:
He drinks
O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
When Lear is mad. What wilt thou do, old man?
What and how true thou art: he will advance thee;
And that's a good root.
Proffers his only daughter to your grace
and so, away: no further with your din
O, lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
What, Octavia?
Methinks I am a prophet new inspired
Let me know the point.
Be known when 'tis brought forth.
Exeunt
Are you fast married? Be assured of this,
Our appertainments, visiting of him:
Write till your ink be dry, and with your tears
Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see
a wherefore.
Ay, or more than we should seek after; for we know
And such a twain can do't, in which I bind,
Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown,
Varro's
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
sweet Benedick! God give me patience!'
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them;
Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
She'll hamper thee, and dandle thee like a baby:
You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn.
Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse
Enter LEONATO, ANTONIO, HERO, BEATRICE, and others
Should sure to the slaughter,
transcends.
Upon a sore injunction: my sweet mistress
Why, my lord?
Our interpreter does it well.
From that supernal judge, that stirs good thoughts
Go fetch them hither to us presently.
Nothing. What news?
Pray, entertain them; give them guide to us.
And he is yours, and his must needs be yours:
so good a continuer. But keep your way, i' God's
And when he says he is, say that he dreams,
Re-enter MARK ANTONY and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
His own impatience
That Henry, sole possessor of my love,
Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man:
There he must stay until the officer
Why, there's for thee, and there, and there. Are all
To walk abroad, and recreate yourselves.
Let your best love draw to that point, which seeks
First mine own service to your grace; the next,
Or else you may return without your money.
are prevented.
Will soon be levied. Herald, save thou thy labour;
Towards Ludlow then, for we'll not stay behind.
I do beseech your majesty may salve
Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age
I find at such proud rate, that it out-speaks
I will not dine until I see the same.
Patient Octavia plough thy visage up
Is Talbot slain, the Frenchmen's only scourge,
Will you go with me? We'll mend our dinner here?
I love you with so much of my heart that none is
Lest you mistake the heavens are o'er our heads.
land now as cheap as stinking mackerel.
Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?
divinity, to any other's, profanation.
Be it so.
For tinctures, stains, relics and cognizance.
Keep tune there still, so you will sing it out:
Yet all goes well, yet all our joints are whole.
Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
Gilded tombs do worms enfold.
Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and
My legs, like loaden branches, bow to the earth,
Even so void is your false heart of truth.
Cunning in dumbness, from my weakness draws
Why, what should be the fear?
Fie, treacherous hue, that will betray with blushing
Well moused, Lion.
discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye
He;
Only reserved their factor, to buy souls
I was adored once too.
Like a bold champion, I assume the lists,
now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art
Such unconstant starts are we like to have from
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
Knocking within
Strive to speak big and clap their female joints
No, no, no, your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta
How that a life was but a flower
Faith, like enough.
disposition, and ask me what you will. I will grant
As I do live by food, I met a fool
I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.
For more than blushing comes to: if your back
Will we sing, and bless this place.
A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
A book of prayers on their pillow lay;
I had thought, by making this well known unto you,
side? the king's: no, on both in one, or one in
To EDGAR
Which is his only.
Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
Tendering my ruin and assail'd of none,
I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken;
It is apparent foul play; and 'tis shame
Shall do a courtesy to our wrath, which men
Your valiant Britons have their wishes in it.
And thus I win thee.
Such duty to the drunkard let him do
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
'Mongst friends,
And mark what object did present itself:
Enter MALCOLM and SIWARD
he would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt brown
You have some cause, they have not.
Come, go with us; we'll look to that anon:
Exit
No more, I pray thee: I am half afeard
You see, my lord, how ample you're beloved.
To inlay heaven with stars.
Edward the Black Prince died before his father
Exeunt
Good morrow, prince; good morrow, Claudio:
lose my doctor? no; he gives me the potions and the
Come as the gods foresay it: howsoe'er,
A letter, that she loves the knight of Tyre!
Meet me all by break of day.
More bitterly could I expostulate,
Yea; and my father.
Are made already mothers: by my count,
That in submission will return to us:
peaceable reign and good government.
O Cleopatra! thou art taken, queen:
They may astonish these fell-lurking curs:
repentance and, with his bad legs, falls into the
More than Octavius and Mark Antony
O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout!
Yet freshly pitied in our memories.
Enter HENRY PERCY
'lordship:' I ne'er drank sack in my life; and if
For me, the gold of France did not seduce;
There they stand yet, and modestly I think,
Five or six thousand; but very weak and
But give them to his master for a present.
I' the name of something holy, sir, why stand you
The occasion shall instruct you: if entreaties
Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
Then strike up drums: God and Saint George for us!
Do not go forth to-day: call it my fear
The matter, I hope, is not great, sir, begging but
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
darkling stand
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Ay, millstones; as be lesson'd us to weep.
To hold your hand more close: I did endure
It is a man's voice. Gentle Isabella,
Pray, write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate
When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it
Showing the bracelet
I must excuse myself, Master Ford.
We stand much hazard, if they bring not Timon.
The edge of that day's celebration
Good Hubert, Hubert, Hubert, throw thine eye
Envenoms him that bears it!
Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
I have served Prince Florizel and in my time
Upon this jump.
ACT IV
What, not between Troilus and Hector? Do you know a
When we do quicken. Desdemona comes:
The which if he can prove, a' pops me out
The shame hereof will make me hide my head.
That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood:
You never spoke what did become you less
therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you
The present consul, and last general
To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish,
Saw you no more? mark'd you not how her sister
I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a
Why, then, let's on our way in silent sort:
And the particular accidents gone by
Boy!
Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
No.
Which must be even as swiftly follow'd as
I'll venture one have-at-him.
Sometimes he talks as if Duke Humphrey's ghost
May be more free.
That grew upon my lips: then laid his leg
Dispose of you.
Patience is scottish, and impatience does
With silence, nephew, be thou politic:
bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine
But have been gazed on like a comet: she speaks,
Work on,
No, cloven.
Weary of all, shall want some.
The good in conversation,
To wash the eyes of kings.
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter KING JOHN, PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and other Lords
Madam, I go with all convenient speed.
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
And when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks,
I'll send her to you presently;
Thou art the Mars of malecontents: I second thee; troop on.
For torturers ingenious: it is I
bacons, on! What, ye knaves! young men must live.
To ABERGAVENNY
When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him
That she preparedly may frame herself
Nay, not as one would say, healthy; but so sound as
Most reverend and grave elders, to desire
His grace is at Marseilles; to which place
seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue
They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?
Though we have spent our harvest of this king,
I am beholding to you: cheer your neighbours.
And if mine eyes can wound, now let them kill thee:
I pray you, uncle, give me this dagger.
Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate.
Pray you, let's hear.
Something too wildly and my father's precepts
Sir, I propose not merely to myself
To the last syllable of recorded time,
And if you prove it, I'll repay it back
Your loss is as yourself, great; and you bear it
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, DOLABELLA, THYREUS, with others
Duck with French nods and apish courtesy,
It may be right; but you are i' the wrong
Fly toward Belmont: come, Antonio.
To be sent after me.
No higher than thyself; the judge's clerk,
The effect of my intent is to cross theirs:
And never borrow any tear of thee.
How came it yours?
Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come;
There is no other way; 'tis she must do't:
I cannot blame her: by God's holy mother,
Well, thou hast called her to a reckoning many a
For it is thine.
But once he slander'd me with bastardy:
wild of Kent hath brought three hundred marks with
There's some among you have beheld me fighting:
eye upon the pernicious and indubitate beggar
And all probation will make up full clear,
His oration to his soldiers
Till accident or purpose bring you to't:
there was very little honour showed in't. For my own
thee, Hal, I knew nothing; and now am I, if a man
[Aside]  Pray to the devils; the gods have given us over.
Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not
Shall I play my freedom at traytrip, and become thy
Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;
Even with the stroke and line of his great justice:
To stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts
They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony?
I must needs say you have a little fault:
And then be gone and trouble you no more.
Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire:
The pine and cedar: graves at my command
Lest it may mar your fortunes.
looked for Master Caius, that calls himself doctor of physic?
Enter PAGE
cold brook,
And from thy burgonet I'll rend thy bear
if you will let your lady know I am here to speak
Best to preserve it: if I lose mine honour,
What is your quarrel? how began it first?
Before, behind thee, and on every hand,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
Pray now, buy some: I love a ballad in print o'
Had thy brethren here, their lives and thine
Which entertain'd, limbs are his instruments,
Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
the tune of 'Two maids wooing a man:' there's
Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
Why, so he did, I am sure.
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS FORD
fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck
As, an't please heaven, he shall not--they
Shall lessen this big look.
For what he did before Corioli, call him,
Of every wind that blows.
Monsieur Parolles.
oft, which now again you are most apt to play the
rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his
I am glad to see your worships well.
Thou art an old love-monger and speakest skilfully.
Their wives have sense like them: they see and smell
I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her,
'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs,
O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
A better never did itself sustain
And very well appointed, as I thought,
In bringing them to civil discipline,
As in these cases, where the aim reports,
Nor cowardly in retire: believe me, sirs,
head: and among other important and most serious
The king is full of grace and fair regard.
It is fifteen years since I saw my country: though
And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale
he's a cat to me.
Look in his youth to have him so cut off
Exeunt other Servants
For holy offices I have a time; a time
But let the ruffian Boreas once enrage
knight with my taber.
So foul a sky clears not without a storm:
Basting.
A plague upon this howling! they are louder than
Another thing to fall. I not deny,
SCENE IV. Before the walls of Athens.
Befitting this first meeting. Welcome, sir;
What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
Because I will not jump with common spirits
Is not this he?
But what he look'd for should oppose and she
Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
You must not so far prefer her 'fore ours of Italy.
angled for mine eyes, caught the water though not
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
We now present. Those that can pity, here
It yearns me not if men my garments wear;
I never did thee harm.
present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's leather.
Now, Harry, whence come you?
Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives
So shall you bind me to your highness' service.
[To VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA]  Your hand, and yours:
'One Sir Andrew,'--
Good angels guard thy battle! live, and flourish!
Lo, citizens, he says he is content:
This ring was mine; and, when I gave it Helen,
Come thronging soft and delicate desires,
For what is in this world but grief and woe?
My name is Corporal Nym; I speak and I avouch; 'tis
Quis, quis, thou consonant?
Kissing her
Is he not jealous?
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
As victors wear at the Olympian games:
Is't not a goodly presence?
I prithee, call him back.
To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears.
You were to blame, I must be plain with you,
Out of hope of all, but my share of the feast.
I have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad,
very first house, of the first and second cause:
I am loath to beat thee.
Where?
thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.
Of pale distemperatures and foes to life?
Try what my credit can in Venice do:
He smiled and said 'The better for our purpose.'
I am a spirit of no common rate;
I were malicious else.
What should he say, but as the cardinal?
If not a feodary, but only he
which gentlemen have.
I would your grace would take me with you: whom
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
May hold together: on her frights and griefs,
Of that great shadow I did represent;
See it so grossly shown in thy behaviors
If here you housed him, here he would have been;
An inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest.
As smiles upon the forehead of this action
Re-enter EMILIA
Or else the world, too saucy with the gods,
Retiring
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
Your hand, Salerio: what's the news from Venice?
My patience to his fury, and am arm'd
will not tell myself; and yet 'tis a milkmaid; yet
Unless it have a false interpeter.
If by direct or by collateral hand
But all hoods make not monks.
Come hither, Aaron; I'll deceive them both:
What is become of Bushy? where is Green?
Poins! Poins, and be hanged! Poins!
SCENE IX. Kenilworth Castle.
That his attendant--so his case was like,
And in assemblies too.
Than where castles mounted stand.
Exeunt
A priestly farewell to her: suddenly, woman.
ANTIPHOLUS
Be Mercury, set feathers to thy heels,
Sleep rock thy brain,
Why, Warwick, canst thou speak against thy liege,
Must it be violent, and as he does conceive
If fires be hot, knives sharp, or waters deep,
I'll in to counsel them; haply my presence
Untouch'd, or slightly handled, in discourse
He, sir! a tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one that
But would it please thee, good Andronicus,
I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
Even then when we sit idly in the sun.
Cousins, God give you joy!
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Exeunt THURIO and Musicians
He hears naught privately that comes from Troy.
We were encounterd by a mighty rock;
not give you three-pence again.
Fare thee well, king: sith thus thou wilt appear,
almost as great as his honesty; had it stretched so
By your renouncement an immortal spirit,
Our cause, that she should lie i' the bosom of
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
chambers, and in the coffers, and in the presses,
Leonato, stand I here?
Exeunt, bearing the dead bodies
thee, eat it.
Wilt thou rest damned? God help thee, shallow man!
Made the all-honour'd, honest Roman, Brutus,
'O, bless my brother!' Husband win, win brother,
She would not hold out enemy for ever,
As much as would maintain, to the king's honour,
Are letters brought, the tenor these:
To be no better than a homely swain;
Is it? I will then address me to my appointment.
That all the court admired him for submission:
The smallest scruple of her excellence
swain,--I keep her as a vessel of the law's fury;
Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?
And so farewell, Signior Lucentio.
With thee and all thy best parts bound together,
From whom hast thou this great commission, France,
Not so, my liege: this lodging likes me better,
All this I know; and to the marriage
Where were you born, friend?
[Reads]  'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
The noble Antony.
Like bulls, or rather lions: did't not wake you?
Having received the punishment before,
Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law:
As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello,
the marking of it.
The Duke of Buckingham's surveyor, ha?
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne?
Nan Page my daughter and my little son
Exeunt GARDINER and Page
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul
As bid me tell my tale in express words,
Ere such another Julius. Britain is
O, for such means!
And thou shalt die for't.
A combination and a form indeed,
Cressid, I love thee in so strain'd a purity,
While she with harlots feasted in my house.
I'll fight at sea.
qualities can make her be refused.
To you as much, sir! I am beholding to you
Have I affected wealth or honour? speak.
intelligence hath seldom failed.
Be not to be a strumpet, I am none.
I claim her not, and therefore she is thine.
Beget your happiness, be happy then,
they die unprovided, no more is the king guilty of
Degenerate bastard! I'll not trouble thee.
For, as the case now stands, it is a curse
I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and
Send for your ring, I will return it home,
Think you, my lord, this little prating York
and therein am I constant to my profession.
Where Cressid lay that night.
For, by thy gracious, golden, glittering gleams,
But under heavy judgment bears that life
there was but one way; for his nose was as sharp as
Your enigma?
barkest at him.
Enter FALSTAFF and PISTOL
Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
So, master mayor: these gates must not be shut
And made their bends adornings: at the helm
To trade and traffic with Macbeth
and, masters, do not forget to specify, when time
Re-enter Players with recorders
I shall review Sicilia, for whose sight
Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature
And this her easy-held imprisonment
But though slow, deadly?
This fellow doth not stand upon points.
Enter a Captain
Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
Say, then, to Caesar,
your execution. If you think it meet, compound with
Methinks King Richard and myself should meet
as much safety you might answer him: therefore, on,
'The slaves are ours:' so do I answer you:
You shall be mistress, and command him wholly.
With clog of conscience and sour melancholy
should have swinged me. If I did not think it had
Which I beseech your highness to forgive,
No.
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
Methinks you're better spoken.
BRUTUS and SICINIUS go aside
Bravest at the last,
gentleman till my return.
Duke Humphrey.
Let it go all.
In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.
Ne'er seen but wonder'd at: and so my state,
Since he's so great can make his will his act,
MARCIUS is shut in
Agree to any covenants, and procure
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
Away with the joint-stools, remove the
My dearest master, your dear son, may hie:
imagine me too unhurtful an opposite. But indeed I
Ay.
quickly! the other that she's in earth, from whence
who in a cheap estimation, is worth predecessors
Borachio.
I have drawn her picture with my voice.
Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or
Partake to every one. I, an old turtle,
Or tear the lions out of England's coat;
Man's life's as cheap as beast's: thou art a lady;
Death of one person can be paid but once,
partly thy mother's word, partly my own opinion,
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
A child that guided dotards; to his mistress,
Were more than you expect, or more than's fit,
In shape profane.
Words against me? this is a good friar, belike!
And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head,
Even now, now, very now, an old black ram
A s mine is to him?
Rise, Titus, rise; my empress hath prevail'd.
Let kings assemble; for my grief's so great
Banish'd the kingdom! Patience, is that letter,
Communicatest with dreams;--how can this be?--
The king is not himself, but basely led
How could he stay till Warwick made return?
Where is he now?
And makes milch-kine yield blood and shakes a chain
Confederate with the queen and her two sons:
Lonely, apart. But here it is: prepare
Why this should be. I therefore vouch again
The strings, my lord, are false.
Is Claudio thine enemy?
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
My gracious lord, that which I would discover
From such fell serpents as false Suffolk is,
Who are the votaries, my loving lords,
With plumed helm thy slayer begins threats;
Then call we this the field of Agincourt,
More can I bear than you dare execute.
Nothing but this; your true love for my master.
You know since Pentecost the sum is due,
Madam, I am most apt to embrace your offer.
In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son;
That's good too: but what needs either your 'mum'
Whose blush doth thaw the consecrated snow
I wore his sword Philippan.
O, a cherubim
DON
How now, you dog!
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
assure ye, it was a buck of the first head.
and the man in blood, they will out of their
For I am sure she is not buried.
Enter AUSTRIA and forces, drums, etc. on one side:  on the other KING PHILIP and his power; LEWIS, ARTHUR, CONSTANCE and attendants
grown a very land-fish, language-less, a monster.
Myself am struck in years, I must confess;
Bind up your hairs.
What, my gracious lord?
had rather:' your husband's here at hand, bethink
So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
'Item: She hath more hair than wit, and more faults
What you can make her do,
Toward Calais: grant him there; there seen,
Nay, do not wonder at it: you are made
So.
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE
Where we're offenders now, appear soul-vex'd,
Horns.
What would you have me be, an I be not a woman?
I have a gammon of bacon and two razors of ginger,
And Rosaline they call her: ask for her;
What's past and what's to come is strew'd with husks
Give me thy hand. I had a thing to say,
For what offence?
Wear out the day in peace; but, ere sunset,
called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in
My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me.
besides the king to effect your suits, here is man
Bereft of ships and men, cast on this shore.
To one not sociable: I am not very sick,
That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.
His hour is almost past.
Now to guard sure their master.
SCENE III. Another part of Blackheath.
The king and queen and all are coming down.
Whatever torment you do put me to.
him, though removed fifty times, shall all come
Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st,
O, are you free?
May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
with comforts,
Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
man; I would have you think so; but, on my
Will bring thy head with sorrow to the ground!
Sir, speed you: what's your will?
No more. Good night:
I cannot think you are my son.
Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws
But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
Under your great command. You are to know
O prudent discipline! From north to south:
Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this lethargy?
To yield possession to my holy prayers
O you gods!
My lord?
If it be mine,
I was moved withal.
Hath shook and trembled at the ill neighbourhood.
She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd;
Good fool, for my brother's death.
Above a twelvemonth. I have within my mind
Sir, make me not your story.
But there's no remedy.
phrase,--that had the whole theoric of war in the
Those that have known the earth so full of faults.
As if thou wert distraught and mad with terror?
My lord, to step out of these dreary dumps,
I had it from my father.
time, have you heard her say?
For when my outward action doth demonstrate
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
Lives, sir.
What with the sickness of Northumberland,
you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll have
To seek out sorrow that dwells every where.
Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith;
We'll make an instrument of this, omit
Exit
Great store of room, no doubt, left for the ladies,
Into the fatal bowels of the deep.
Why he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
Enter a Servant
O, what more favour can I do to thee,
That which he is, new o'er: and he is one
I will tell thee wonders.
I was told that  by one that knows him better than
And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
Your suffering in this dearth, you may as well
come in our shadow, to scatter his crowns in the
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this
For all the world.
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
This arm shall do it, or this life be spent.
the chain; but, I warrant you, the women have so
God save you, sir!
For now the devil, that told me I did well,
What need you note it? pray you, keep your way:
The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
Curse not thyself, fair creature thou art both.
And he from forage will incline to play:
And when my face is fair, you shall perceive
My lord, here are letters for you.
Shall we go, coz?
Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man's
He shall not carry him: I'll be ta'en too,
Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company,
physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand
If it be so, yet bragless let it be;
O, let my sovereign turn away his face
In this fine age were not thought flattery,
I'll sweeten thy sad grave: thou shalt not lack
Goes to and back, lackeying the varying tide,
Made him my book wherein my soul recorded
Thy penitent reform'd: but we have been
But love is blind and lovers cannot see
How much I was a braggart. When I told you
Thus, with his speechless hand: what he would do,
to dinner: besides your cheer, you shall have
Is not a single doom; in the name lay
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
O, vile! then, as she goes, what upward lies
If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
come? to see: why did he see? to overcome: to
Naught to do with mistress Shore! I tell thee, fellow,
honourable friend, Agrippa!
the people mad?
Exeunt Servants
With words that in an honest suit might move.
Here's our chief guest.
Not in my house, Lucentio; for, you know,
Of all say'd yet, mayst thou prove prosperous!
proceeding, it shall become him well; wherein if he
And so it is. For this time I will leave you:
that I have a kind of alacrity in sinking; if the
Let it not gall your patience, good Iago,
He gave it to a commoner o' the camp,
Cousin, I think thou art enamoured
Nothing so strong and fortunate as I.
The conquest of our scarce cold conqueror,
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
There is no remedy; I must cony-catch; I must shift.
For now they kill me with a living death.
Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
A mote will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which
There's magic in thy majesty, which has
I would out-night you, did no body come;
Only for wantonness. By my christendom,
To see him kiss his hand! and how most sweetly a'
And the queen too, and that presently.
It is his.
To whom shouldst thou give it?
Art turn'd the greatest liar.
Why hast thou thus adjourn'd
But hearts for the event.
Being but the one half of an entire sum
I have no mind of feasting forth to-night:
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home
Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can
Aside to SATURNINUS
I charge thee, be not thou more grieved than I am.
Let it alone; let's to billiards: come, Charmian.
How now, rustics! whither are you bound?
Lesser than Macbeth, and greater.
Lo, he is tilting straight! Peace! I have done.
Heaven be my witness you do, if you suspect me in
For, till I see them here, by doubtful fear
Little are we beholding to your love,
though, I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is
[Aside]  The Prince of Cumberland! that is a step
Where? when? what vizard? why demand you this?
She dying, as it must so be maintain'd,
Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
Come on, you madcap, I'll to the alehouse with you
This and these pearls to me sent Longaville:
O, would the king, Biron, and Longaville,
You kiss by the book.
Marry, if you would put me to verses or to dance for
Do you not hear me speak?
If I go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the face.
Now, what a thing it is to be an ass!
under the hangman: which though it be great pity,
And sometimes falling ones.
I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
He is as horribly conceited of him; and pants and
BIRON tears the letter
The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner.
With such a hell of pain and world of charge,
Please you to accept it, that the queen is spotless
Vat is you sing? I do not like des toys. Pray you,
May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
I' the privy chamber?
you, of the Roman disciplines, than is a puppy-dog.
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
Nay, stay; by Jove, I will not speak a word:
The natural bravery of your isle, which stands
Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius
O, no; wherein Lord Talbot was o'erthrown:
This interchange of love, I here protest,
Why is this reason'd?
Enter VIOLA, and Attendants
'Tis time; descend; be stone no more; approach;
How now! what's the matter?
You all consented unto Salisbury's death,
No, no, my sovereign; Gloucester is a man
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
Pray you, sir, stand up: I am sure you are not
Well, let us to the king: there is that in this
So, this is Tyre, and this the court. Here must I
After he scores, he never pays the score:
That did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,
Of thee and me, and sighs, and takes my glove,
yourself clear, why, I am glad of it; but if you
That oft in field, with targe and shield, did make
ACT III
Cry lost, and so good night!
one another and shook their heads; but, for mine own
And summon him to marriage. Now he goes,
For when the king once heard it, out of anger
You may have every day enough of Hector
Why, then, 'tis hers, my lord; and, being hers,
To be disgraced by an inkhorn mate,
Change it, change it;
foul the clearness of our deservings, when of
As ravenous fishes, do a vessel follow
That dotage gives it.
Come hither, England's hope.
A prosperous gentleman; and to be king
That Rome holds of his name; wherein obscurely
'Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen,
I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round,
The gifts she looks from me are pack'd and lock'd
I'll warrant you,
Rebell'd against the belly, thus accused it:
Can you still dream and pore and thereon look?
The duke is coming: see the barge be ready;
By any other name would smell as sweet;
Prosper you, sweet sir!
Is Antony or we in fault for this?
Would you expect? you are strangely troublesome.
I oft found both: I urge this childhood proof,
Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.
Enter an AEdile
To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms,
Thou dost approve thyself the very same:
And therefore, as we hither came in peace,
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
If you will see a pageant truly play'd,
Enter GHOST and HAMLET
I know't too well.
And now ingratitude makes it worse than stealth.
Have I lived to be carried in a basket, like a
knowest my old ward; here I lay and thus I bore my
Exit Clown
Ha, come and bring away the nets!
you: let the justices make you and fortune friends:
Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due to a woman; one
Enter BARDOLPH
Our great competitor: from Alexandria
This is a dull sight. Are you not Kent?
And thereupon he sends you this good news,
grapes: if she had been blessed, she would never
That in their country did them that disgrace,
Dreading the curse that money may buy out;
Since every Jack became a gentleman
You see him there, do you?
kinsman, live unbruised and love my cousin.
Spent more in her defence. But, worthy Hector,
Nobly he yokes
I shall discharge to the life.
Enter AJAX, armed; AGAMEMNON, ACHILLES, PATROCLUS, MENELAUS, ULYSSES, NESTOR, and others
William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part,--
But stay the very riping of the time;
Ravish'd and wrong'd, as Philomela was,
More honourable state, more courtship lives
Should without issue die, he'll carry it so
More hateful to mine ear.
These three have robb'd me; and this demi-devil--
learning, gentleness, virtue, youth, liberality,
Thou shouldst have made him
Unless thou think'st me devilish--is't not meet
So aged as this seems.
As others would ambitiously receive it.
Look that you love your wife; her worth worth yours.
We are descried; they'll mock us now downright.
When thou wakest, it is thy dear:
But life itself, my wife, and all the world,
To sort our nobles from our common men.
That appertain to you? Am I yourself
But now I envy at their liberty,
That, being daily swallow'd by men's eyes,
mocks; I have forgot his name.
The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
Desire them home. Give me thy hand, my cousin;
That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
That's not my fear; my meed hath got me fame:
Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear.
be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may
Most wrongfully accused your substitute,
It adds a precious seeing to the eye;
Now all the youth of England are on fire,
Art not a poet?
Well met, honest gentleman.
Ay me!
Fain would I go to chafe his paly lips
Tears of true joy for his return to Rome.
borrowed, three of four times; lived well and in
NYM and PISTOL draw
His heart, like an agate, with your print impress'd,
If Henry were recall'd to life again,
fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion
And not in fear of your nativity.
She is your own; else, you must pardon me,
Exit Chamberlain
The smallest worm will turn being trodden on,
ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at home?
die a dry death.
A most poor issue?
break promise with him and make a fool of him.
The goodliest weapons of his armoury
Enter ROSS and an old Man
To this same blessed Milford: and by the way
we'll to Sutton Co'fil' tonight.
Mischance and sorrow go along with you!
So long a-growing and so leisurely,
ACT II
My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you,
Thou villain Capulet,--Hold me not, let me go.
that have been more kindly beholding to you than
Hast practised on man's life: close pent-up guilts,
They retire
'Tis certain so; the prince wooes for himself.
Re-enter TREBONIUS
or a hair less, in his beard, than thou hast: thou
Born in Verona, old Antonio's son:
And, madam, if my uncle Marcus go,
Noble Aufidius,
Thy evil spirit, Brutus.
Now entertain conjecture of a time
No, good madam, pardon me; indeed, I will not forth.
Here, Hastings; I will never more remember
He sends so poor a pinion off his wing,
Antick'd us all. What needs more words? Good night.
Why hast thou slain thine only daughter thus?
I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match
Wanting the scythe, all uncorrected, rank,
Enter OSWALD
Or some about him near, have, out of malice
We shall, noble captain.
I am much deceived but I remember the style.
All love the womb that their first being bred,
SCENE II. Rome. An ante-chamber in OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
the yarn she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill
So distribution should undo excess,
Order gave each thing view; the office did
You know your mother means to feast with me,
Then die a calf, before your horns do grow.
Virtue itself: these shrugs, these hums and ha's,
Your sad tires in a mile-a.
Arms, arms, sword, fire! Corruption in the place!
Or else a hovering temporizer, that
They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
this great world.
Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
He flashes into one gross crime or other,
The mettle of your pasture; let us swear
access to thee.
With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint,
[Aside]  Now, by the gods, he could not please me better.
Enter FRIAR PETER
But I will chastise this high-minded strumpet.
would have searched it; but fate, ordaining he
That will not trust thee but for profit's sake?
Follows singing
himself fears it not from another: let your general
You were conducted to a gentle bath
And food for--
fashions: you shall fare well; you shall have the
No, mighty King of France: now Margaret
I will go darkly to work with her.
Which else should free have wrought.
Make your best use of this: I have perform'd
Or from the all that are took something good,
thousand years I could stay no longer. Wherefore,
Is that any thing now?
Besides, the king's name is a tower of strength,
Mangle the work of nature and deface
See how the blood is settled in his face.
looks pale, as if a bear were at his heels.
I' the east my pleasure lies.
chooses you, will, no doubt, never be chosen by any
Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal:
To be whipped! What's his fault?
If e'er I loved her, all that love is gone.
Unarm thee, go, and doubt thou not, brave boy,
ACT I
I will be married to a wealthy widow,
Greater than this.
To leave you in your madness, 'twere my sin:
Ours is the fall, I fear; our foes the snare.
Proclaim an enshield beauty ten times louder
Thy sins are visited in this poor child;
And many limits of the charge set down
This letter from Bellario doth commend
They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens;
Freely command, thou wouldst have plunged thyself
To knot and gender in! Turn thy complexion there,
The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw
thee: methinks, thou art a general offence, and
What good is cover'd with the face of heaven,
We lop away, that bearing boughs may live:
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,
Be bloody, bold, and resolute; laugh to scorn
The king, of his own royal disposition,
I will fetch you a tooth-picker now from the
Or be accused of folly. I shall tell you
firago. I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard and
Fond done, done fond,
Good word nor look: what, are my deeds forgot?
And, which is more than all these boasts can be,
'Integer vitae, scelerisque purus,
When down the hill he holds his fierce career?
are not alike; alas, good neighbour!
Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland.
Our targes undinted.
To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose,
Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.
Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
Good morrow, my good lords.
For it is you that puts us to our shifts:
Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish'd me:
mine; for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs. I
Therefore, as you unwind her love from him,
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
This is the rascal; this is he I spoke of.
Re-enter Iago
Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
There is a purse of ducats; let her send it:
Poor gentleman! his wrong doth equal mine.
Nor from the dust of old oblivion raked,
The nature of an insurrection.
That this distemper'd messenger of wet,
Exeunt CLEOMENES and others
ANTIPHOLUS
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Have all limed bushes to betray thy wings,
All Greek, and this all Troy; my mother's blood
If Proteus like your journey when you come,
And with a puissant and a mighty power
As a friend or an enemy?
But that's past doubt, you have, or your eye-glass
Didst speak him fair?
Which, like a bourn, a pale, a shore, confines
Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing.
What's his name and birth?
Let not your ears despise my tongue for ever,
Above the moon: we must be burnt for you.
Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursula
O, that exceeds, they say.
I left no ring with her: what means this lady?
But wherefore do you droop? why look you sad?
You see the poor remainder--could distribute,
Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
If this be courtesy, sir, accept of it.
so miserable but a man may be true.
I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
Have read it for restoratives:
come by him where he stands, by ones, by twos, and
That she is not so fair as, of you, well-favoured.
Than to be dealt in by attorneyship;
And will, to save the blood on either side,
rendezvous of it.
Why, then the world's mine oyster.
Mistress Page would desire you to send her your
Re-enter AARON, with QUINTUS and MARTIUS
That is done, sir; they have all stomachs.
This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.
The dinner attends you, sir.
Where many of the best respect in Rome,
Till candles and starlight and moonshine be out.
How, I pray you?
And welcome, general: and ye're welcome all.
Enter HENRY PERCY
Confess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes
He that unbuckles this, till we do please
think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb.
Than die for this.
Whom thou hast poison'd too:
They have the more need to sleep now, then.
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
for ladies.
Enter IMOGEN
As little by such toys as may be possible.
Thou shalt not live to brag what we have offer'd.
And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady:
Set on toward Swinstead: to my litter straight;
The queen, sir, very oft importuned me
It must needs wither: I'll smell it on the tree.
where to hide my head: yond same cloud cannot
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
To mitigate the justice of thy plea;
With purpose to be dress'd in an opinion
To hear the replication of your sounds
Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud,
And finding little comfort to relieve them,
True; and yet it is said, labour in thy vocation;
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
And kingly dignity, we are contented
usurers' men! bawds between gold and want!
Ho, ho! I laugh to think that babe a bastard.
If that thou be'st a Roman, take it forth;
Are there no stones in heaven
paper-mill. It will be proved to thy face that thou
Her husband, knave: wouldst thou betray me?
These boys know little they are sons to the king;
Here once again we sit, once again crown'd,
I know not how much more, should be demanded;
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
No, truly not; although, until last night,
'Tis said, my liege, in Yorkshire are in arms.
Exeunt some of the Servants
Better forbear till Proteus make return.
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
Stand not upon the order of your going,
Will seize the doctor too. How ended she?
Against them both my true joints bended be.
'Tis so: and as war, in some sort, may be said to
The heavens so dim by day. A savage clamour!
And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes,
Beseech you,--
Whose eye beck'd forth my wars, and call'd them home;
Figures pedantical; these summer-flies
Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
From France to England, there to live in peace.
As if the garment had been made for me:
him. I do invite you to-morrow morning to my house
Exit
Where he abides.
that they make, the devils mar five.
Her father means she shall be all in white,
But I do love the favour and the form
performer, I would have that drum or another, or
Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
The truth and innocence of this poor fellow,
Exeunt Prologue, Thisbe, Lion, and Moonshine
For notes of sorrow out of tune are worse
By the yea and no, I think the 'oman is a witch
Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance?
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;
A little, by your favour.
Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance.
And my heart breaks at it.
And her prosperities so largely taste,
excellent news of your husband.
But now mischance hath trod my title down,
But flies an eagle flight, bold and forth on,
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
You may, indeed, say so;
clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by
As I do think, to-morrow.
beseech your worship to correct yourself, for the
[Striking her]  Devil!
Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you;
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a-making,
A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason of
'Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone.
No, my good lord; I am the very man,--
To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
Soldiers, not thieves.
Taken from Paul's to be interred there;
Your master wed me to: nothing but death
But first I will release the fairy queen.
Of breaking honesty--horsing foot on foot?
good boy, by the Lord, so they call me, and when I
Over-roasted rather; ready long ago.
Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
And, as the world were now but to begin,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
With true-love showers.
court lay at Windsor, could never have brought her
I know, by that same eye, there's some good news.
of thought, conceived of spleen and born of madness,
I'll after, more to be revenged on Eglamour
Let me see: marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it
Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist,
Sennet. Here they come down
If you will not undo what you have done, that is,
Take their examination yourself and bring it me: I
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and
We could at once put us in readiness,
When we have chid the hasty-footed time
Nor do I think the man of safe discretion
to your husband, to give him such cause of suspicion!
That it intends to do? My lord of Burgundy,
Bell rings
To think upon you.
'marry trap' with you, if you run the nuthook's
Enter CHATILLON
Your presence glads our days: honour we love;
That looks not heavily and full of fear.
true lovers run into strange capers; but as all is
That holds in chase mine honour up and down?
If you shall marry,
And dress'd myself in such humility
This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face.
Their coronets say so. These are stars indeed;
And must be buried but as an intent
I'ld play incessantly upon these jades,
clients: though you change your place, you need not
Wouldst thou have thy head broken?
As England was his faithful tributary,
I humbly thank you, sir: a truth's a truth, the
In Saturninus' health, whom, if she sleep,
King Henry's issue, Richmond, comforts thee.
But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon
And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
Why, Doctor She: my lord, there's one arrived,
I am as woful as Virginius was,
Cock crows
palm-tree. I was never so be-rhymed since
The Count Rousillon: know you such a one?
Aside, aside; here is more matter for a hot brain:
And breed a kind of question in our cause;
Thy safety being the motive.
Enter MISTRESS OVERDONE
I doubt not that; since we are well persuaded
incomprehensible lies that this same fat rogue will
Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him,
Great men,
Brother, I advise you to the best; go armed: I
They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase
upon't! what have I forgot?
I do to spite the world.
Go to, a bargain made: seal it, seal it; I'll be the
Enter Serving-men, in skirmish, with bloody pates
Yet you are wither'd.
Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.
a man: surely I think you have charms, la; yes, in truth.
While it doth study to have what it would
Takes off his false beard
Though Cassio did some little wrong to him,
Great Timon, noble, worthy, royal Timon!
None but for some and yet all different.
Following the fliers at the very heels,
Unvenerable be thy hands, if thou
Exit BAPTISTA
Look, how the black slave smiles upon the father,
You are welcome, sir, to Cyprus.--Goats and monkeys!
For the red blood reigns in the winter's pale.
Be stomachers to my heart. Thus may poor fools
My household stuff, my field, my barn,
Whither away, or where is thy abode?
SCENE VI. The same. The DUKE'S palace.
To vie strange forms with fancy; yet, to imagine
Into the air; and what seem'd corporal melted
How now, Roderigo!
The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanch, and
Exeunt
I would you were as I would have you be!
To entertain great England's lawful king.
And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk,
Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming,
His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.
From my own windows torn my household coat,
So early walking did I see your son:
Sorrow were ever razed and testy wrath
Indeed, they are disproportion'd;
Assumed this age; indeed a banish'd man;
Thou art, if thou darest be, the earthly Jove:
Health and fair time of day; joy and good wishes
Fill me a bowl of wine. Give me a watch.
Both who he is and why he cometh hither
Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.
Should become kings of Naples? O, rejoice
by these presents.'
And with thy lips keep in my soul awhile!
Some one be ready with a costly suit
Witnessing storms to come, woe and unrest:
Because a bard of Ireland told me once
But when my angry guardant stood alone,
Therefore, to arms! And, father, do but think
Will live as maids and widows. Come, away!
That I may see again.
Let me give light, but let me not be light;
heavens; he shows me where the bachelors sit, and
The addition nobly ever!
Exeunt
If any thing that's civil, speak; if savage,
Exeunt
One of the prettiest touches of all and that which
No more to the crown but that. Lo, who comes here?
So as thou livest in peace, die free from strife:
Caesar, my lord?
Peace, ho! no outrage: peace!
Have you a working pulse? and are no fairy?
Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths,
The name of Prosper: it did bass my trespass.
I saw the treasons planted.
Whereat a villain's not a welcome guest.
I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this:
O, courage, courage, princes! great Achilles
I stole into a neighbour thicket by,
Why, that's my fortune too; therefore I'll stay.
Are sometimes like our judgments, blind. Good faith,
The king, the king!
Here comes the duke.
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
man to labour in his vocation.
sir, we had but two in the house, which at that very
When all our pageants of delight were play'd,
Enter, with drum and colours, HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, Attendants, and forces
Thersites, my lord.
Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb;
I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd
A forked mountain, or blue promontory
To be ashamed to be my father's child!
I beseech your grace to pardon me, and withal
I'll about it this evening: and I will presently
Aside to PORTIA
the poop, but 'tis in the nose of thee; thou art the
And should she thus be stol'n away from you,
A piece of ordnance 'gainst it I have placed;
him, mistaking his purpose, it would make a great
That most may claim this argument for ours?
Till we perceived, both how you were wrong led,
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
I will oppose his fate. Our force by land
But, my lord,
And to fulfil his prince' desire,
A minister of her will: and it is great
Yet I have a trick
Aaron is gone; and my compassionate heart
To please the king I did; to please myself
An arm as big as thine? a heart as big?
Call up my brother. O, would you had had her!
I humbly thank your highness.
of losing.
No less beg than a kingdom: if he please
But wonder on, till truth make all things plain.
Is this the man that you did tell us of?
second conference, and I will bring from thence
Can neither call it perfect day nor night.
By Providence divine.
Am sure I scared the Dauphin and his trull,
Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting.
He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
As the moon does, by wanting light to give:
My army but a weak and sickly guard;
Whose chronicle thus writ: 'The man was noble,
Saying our grace is only in our heels,
Whose settled visage and deliberate word
This honest man, wait like a lousy footboy
Else are they very wretched.
Under the gods, keep you in awe, which else
Until it wither with me to my grave
page, Hercules,--
Assurance bless your thoughts!
Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO
Then shall you know the wounds invisible
Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
Drawn in the flattering table of her eye!
And my kind kinsman, warriors all, adieu!
ANTIPHOLUS
With this regard their currents turn awry,
Then there's my glove;
O' the rolls, and the king's secretary; further, sir,
be a clipper.
is stabbing.
Enter young YORK, HASTINGS, and the CARDINAL
Than give thy cause away.
Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
Thou god of this great vast, rebuke these surges,
From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
Look, what thy soul holds dear, imagine it
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
Of Mantua, sir? marry, God forbid!
So thou destroy Rapine and Murder there.
Go to, go to: no matter for the dish, sir.
His friend that dips in the same dish? for, in
Sir Valentine, I care not for her, I;
I will take order for her keeping close.
Of an inestimable value, and his daughter with him,
But, to the matter that we have in hand:
Be sent for, to return from France with speed;
Obscures the show of evil? In religion,
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  He has a cloud in 's face.
And crickets sing at the oven's mouth,
Than Cressid borne from Troy.
My father Capulet will have it so;
That mothers shall but smile when they behold
I think the boy hath grace in him; he blushes.
thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than
I know a bank where the wild thyme blows,
So shall I clothe me in a forced content,
Of these delated articles allow.
Pity not honour'd age for his white beard;
Before thy face repent!
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
To the very moment that he bade me tell it;
What wouldst thou, boy?
Says it is past her cure.
Whether I blush or no: howbeit, I thank you.
Post on the lame feet of my rhyme;
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
That were I ta'en here it would scarce be answer'd.
Woe the while!
See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.
He robs himself that spends a bootless grief.
The rest do nothing--with this word 'Stand, stand,'
The worst that man can breathe, and make his wrongs
My hopes do shape him for the governor.
corner and cry heigh-ho for a husband!
Tut, I can counterfeit the deep tragedian;
So please your lordship to accept our duty.
office of love, but in all the accoutrement,
as you would say, a cobbler.
Cannot impugn you as you do proceed.
choice. Now, sir, this granted,--as it is a most
mistress. Thou pratest, and pratest; serve with thy
As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd,
My masters, are you mad? or what are you? Have ye
Alas, she has no speech.
Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.
clean. nor believe he can have every thing in him
These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights
at that time, overfond of the shepherd's daughter,
How is't with you, my lord
wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give
Why, now thou hast unwish'd five thousand men;
Sound, sound, sound, sound!
Ascribes the glory of his conquest got
Alas the day!
The handkerchief!
Which he counts but a trifle.
Give me to drink mandragora.
So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee,
As in this king.
Now shine it like a comet of revenge,
Enter SCARUS
What, you will not? Prithee, tell my master what a
Were he as famous and as bold in war
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
Man but a rush against Othello's breast,
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
Ere thou relieve the beggar; give to dogs
My husband!
her face and so disfigure her with it that she
women the play may please. If I were a woman I
O that I had my wish!
'Romeo is banished,' to speak that word,
Not able to endure the sight of day,
To the good queen, possess'd him with a scruple
And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
Than is the coal of fire upon the ice,
More slavish did I ne'er than answering
He has done my office: I know not if't be true;
Exeunt
I cannot think but your age has forgot me;
Who's there? What is't you seek?
No, they are free that gave these tokens to us.
He will to his Egyptian dish again: then shall the
Enter Musicians
Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again:
Than boys pursuing summer butterflies,
And gracious be the issue!
Re-enter CATESBY
Had so much grace to put it in my mind.
Thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies
Gods are more full of mercy. Must I repent?
Some poison'd by their wives: some sleeping kill'd;
Admit him entrance, Griffith: but this fellow
I may be negligent, foolish and fearful;
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and enforces.
Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails;
And power i' the truth o' the cause.
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false
Falls into the pit
All good people,
Royal Lear,
This office to you.
Alack, our terrene moon
A load would sink a navy, too much honour:
The fixture of her eye has motion in't,
Is the young Dauphin every way complete:
Not a hair perish'd;
Hit with Cupid's archery,
What's your grace's will?
Re-enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
ACT I
Music, and a song
Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.
So to the laws at large I write my name:
man against his will.
any thing and yet a fool.
but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
Then bid me kill myself, and I will do it.
For, look you, I may make the belly smile
Grumio, mum! God save you, Signior Gremio.
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Thy tongue against thy tongue. O, let thy vow
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but EXETER
To a rope's-end, sir; and to that end am I returned.
own people.
And yet not many.
C'est assez pour une fois: allons-nous a diner.
That brought you home and boldly did outdare
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly:
O, you go far.
They say, poor gentleman, he's much distract.
For you my staff of office did I break
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
Reads
too cunning to be understood: what's your offence?
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
Is held no great good lover of the archbishop's,
Was it not so?
My countryman; but yet I know him not.
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows,
Then, I am sure, you know how much the gross sum of
Must shuffle for itself.
To view with hollow eye and wrinkled brow
Flourish. Exeunt
'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid:'
Industrious soldiership.
Signior Hortensio, 'twixt such friends as we
Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him.
'Pless my soul, how full of chollors I am, and
'Wit, whither wilt?'
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
set him clear. How fairly this lord strives to
Flourish
Whiles they behold a greater than themselves,
Slew three opposers: Tarquin's self he met,
To do our country loss; and if to live,
Enter NYM, BARDOLPH, PISTOL, and Boy
Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail:
Seek through your camp to find you.
Sink Rome, and their tongues rot
all the rest from their functions: they put forth
What's the matter?
This lord go to him! Jupiter forbid,
Enter SILVIUS
You something know; yet I believe there comes
But get thee gone: I shall be there before thee.
And there cut off thy most ungracious head;
duke to be wise.
But, poor old man, thou prunest a rotten tree,
But Imogen is your own: do your best wills,
Opening a letter
Take I your wish, I leap into the seas,
The purple violets, and marigolds,
Of sprites and goblins.
We will greet the time.
When comes Troilus? I'll show you Troilus anon: if
I knit my handercher about your brows,
As by the strength of their illusion
He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
Exeunt
Look, what is done cannot be now amended:
About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca:
call me usurer; let him look to his bond: he was
The noble Duke of Bedford late deceased,
Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense?
If thou be'st slain and with no stroke of mine,
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
that your grace had got the good will of this young
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
And wishes fall out as they're will'd.
I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
I do protest I never loved myself
What I must strive to do.
In the very end of harvest!
If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.
Swart, like my shoe, but her face nothing half so
Bloody constraint; for if you hide the crown
Do paint the meadows with delight,
Prithee, get thee in: would thou hadst ne'er been
To KING OF FRANCE
And by his rare example made the coward
And warrant limited unto my tongue.
Protest my ears were never better fed
Both he loves.
He thought 'twas witchcraft--but I am much to blame;
Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue!
Which join'd with him and made their march for Bourdeaux.
I will repeal thee, or, be well assured,
Exeunt
How does my wife?
Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
SCENE II:
Stop in your wind, sir: tell me this, I pray:
white and red.
For Theseus' perjury and unjust flight;
His noble kinsman: most degenerate king!
My noble general, Timon is dead;
Farewell, kinsman: I'll talk to you
fantastical; too, too vain, too too vain: but we
By him and by this woman here what know you?
He little cares for and a daughter who
Is he pardon'd; and, for your lovely sake,
Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland
I will not stay behind.
Good Master Mustardseed, I know your patience well:
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
Get me ink and paper:
A worthy fool! Motley's the only wear.
Sir John, you are so fretful, you cannot live long.
Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,
Bear free and patient thoughts. But who comes here?
Ay, and 'Rato-lorum' too; and a gentleman born,
Did not together pluck such envy from him
When presently through all thy veins shall run
But for these instances.
On meddling monkey, or on busy ape,
Yes.
Wanton in fulness, seek to hide themselves
If to have done the thing you gave in charge
Fail not to use, and with what vehemency
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
But of the finer natures? by some severals
Should I have wish'd a thing, it had been he.
With certain half-caps and cold-moving nods
This day shall gentle his condition:
'As false as Cressid.'
SCENE I. Messina. POMPEY's house.
Come, answer not, but to it presently!
To an honour'd triumph strangely furnished.
brother John; this to my Lord of Westmoreland.
[Beneath]  Swear.
What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
So can I name his faults,--
The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
And bid the owners quench them with their tears.
up, was she?
How now, Master Ford!
Here, at your service. My lord approaches.
And what your pleasure is, shall satisfy me.
I believe thee; for I think thou never wast where
Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not;
If heaven have any grievous plague in store
I pray you, sir, walk in.
The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud,
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
Neither of these are so bad as thou art,
Good gods!
My lord?
particulars; wherein every one of us has a single
As many and as well-born bloods as those,--
Neither disturbed with the effect of wine,
And welcome home again discarded faith.
I would Poison that vile rascal.
Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested,
All parts of his subjection loyally. For Cloten,
We know't, we know't.
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
There's enough to make us all.
Go to; away!
And rob in the behalf of charity.
God save you, sir! where have you been broiling?
By Jupiter, I swear, no.
To be desired to give. It much would please him,
That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.
Came short of composition, but in chief
Well, what remedy? Fenton, heaven give thee joy!
What is your crest? a coxcomb?
The farced title running 'fore the king,
To pay our wonted tribute, from the which
Let us go thank him and encourage him:
Now help, or woe betide thee evermore!
To save your subjects from such massacre
Unfold it.
Awaked the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
Speak, old AEgeon, if thou be'st the man
Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt
Did an Egyptian to my mother give;
Thy Clarence he is dead that kill'd my Edward;
And Caesar shall go forth.
Out, and alas! that was my lady's voice.
He was as rattling thunder. For his bounty,
Some dozen Romans of us and your lord--
Herod of Jewry; Mithridates, king
Love is your master, for he masters you:
Blood and destruction shall be so in use
Whom whilst I labour'd of a love to see,
And under-honest, in self-assumption greater
Let us once lose our oaths to find ourselves,
That the time's enemies may not have this
Escaped the hunt. No port is free; no place,
That quaint in green she shall be loose enrobed,
My curses on her!
he killed? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing.
Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
Raise all my kindred. Are they married, think you?
upon you; and, I pray you, your name?
My ships come home a month before the day.
The best I had, a princess wrought it me,
Gives the letter to EDMUND
Stand where the torch may not discover us.
A very excellent piece of villany:
Some better than his value, on the moment
Yoke-fellow to his honour-owing wounds,
ANTIPHOLUS
live long.
That in a Christian climate souls refined
swashers. I am boy to them all three: but all they
Take heed the queen come not within his sight;
Even this repays me. We sent our schoolmaster;
Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
Who had not now been drooping here, if seconds
On, good Roderigo: I'll deserve your pains.
Thou hast cast away thyself, being like thyself;
Do, as a monster fly my presence thus.
He is the wiser man, master doctor: he is a curer of
two tribunes:
I crave the benefit of law of arms.
And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep,
It will be found so, Master Page. Master Doctor
No.
be sad: I fear you have sold your own lands to see
your remedy.
to slander the Lady Hero, how you were brought into
No villanous bounty yet hath pass'd my heart;
Fare thee well, fare thee well.
Make head against my estimation!
Or I will beat this method in your sconce.
That you should fashion, wrest, or bow your reading,
God make your majesty joyful as you have been!
More than a wild exposture to each chance
Was ever Scythia half so barbarous?
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
By penitence the Eternal's wrath's appeased:
Ay, my lord.
great P's. It is, in contempt of question, her hand.
ACT III
In number more than ever women spoke,
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
broke bread: we had an hour's talk of that wart. I
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures.
Apemantus' grace.
his soldiership I know not; except, in that country
See, what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
In what, my dear lord?
You woo'd me the false way.
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
Must these have voices, that can yield them now
Then fare thee well: I must go buy spices for our
And never did desire to see thee more.
BRUTUS and LUCILIUS converse apart
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
What, for being a puritan? thy exquisite reason,
Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more:
And with what zeal! for, now he has crack'd the league
The anvil of my sword, and do contest
Will make or man or woman madly dote
Exeunt
Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
And happy always was it for that son
Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day.
him that made the tailor, not be fit too? the
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers,
It may be his enemy is a gentleman of great sort,
And yet are steep'd in favours: so am I,
Nor longer stay in your curst company.
Or else a breath: the combatants being kin
Fear not you that. Go get us properties
Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall
I, Daedalus; my poor boy, Icarus;
Than thine own worth prefer thee: go with me.
With nightly tears and daily heart-sore sighs;
The adventure of her person?
That can entame my spirits to your worship.
filled up with guts and midriff. Charge an honest
Obedience: for so work the honey-bees,
most dreadful thing; for there is not a more fearful
Vines and clustering bunches growing,
My daughter might have been: my queen's square brows;
O, were it but my life,
Or else reproach be Talbot's greatest fame!
die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I
Come at my heels, Jack Rugby.
The very head and front of my offending
Stay, my lord legate: you shall first receive
thou couldst, thou wouldst find me such a plain king
DON
Come, come; thou'lt do thy message, wilt thou not?
'Sigeia tellus,' disguised thus to get your love;
soar, I am a hawk: he trots the air; the earth
My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,
Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths:
This purse of ducats I received from you,
A good l'envoy, ending in the goose: would you
narrow for your mind.
There then; how then? what then? Let me see wherein
For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd;
And pass'd him unelected.
And show'd thou makest some tender of my life,
What ruins are in me that can be found,
We must be married, or we must live in bawdry.
Exit
So much besmear it. Pardon me, good lady;
By my old beard,
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him
Steed threatens steed, in high and boastful neighs
Wilt thou be gone? Sweet Valentine, adieu!
married to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth
Let 'em enter.
Although my will distaste what it elected,
That these great lords and Margaret our queen
Yes, he is dead; how wilt thou do for a father?
Love got so sweet as when desire did sue.
He is not with himself; let us withdraw.
I like that well: nay, how absolute she's in't,
Post I in this design: well may you, sir,
Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR and OCTAVIA
For every drop of blood was drawn from him,
By many an ounce--he dropp'd it for his country;
Oh, sir, I did not look so low. To conclude, this
And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards
Commend me to your niece.
Now follow, if thou darest, to try whose right,
Enter ROMEO
Exit, dragged off by Soldiers
Why, yet there want not many that do fear
Now, fair befall you! he deserved his death;
strain, of approved valour and confirmed honesty. I
She loves thee, boy, too well to do thee harm.
Whose ugly and unnatural aspect
this night in a dance: and if he found her
Did, with his iron tongue and brazen mouth,
What's that?
Ay, my good lord:--my lord, I should say rather;
How thou camest here thou mayst.
Sound drums and trumpets, and to London all:
[To SIR NATHANIEL]  O, sir, you have overthrown
His favour with the radiant Cymbeline,
And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
And but attended by a simple guard,
No more my grief, in such a precious loss.
O giglot fortune!--to master Caesar's sword,
What mean you by that saying?
As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men set upon us--
I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once;
unquietness?
Faith there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine
And, to be noted for a merry man,
what: what have I brought you to do?
True, uncle.
Half won is match well made; match, and well make it;
herald's coat without sleeves; and the shirt, to say
Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.
If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive
Exit
So likely an ambassador of love:
Well, keep me company but two years moe,
for he, being in love, could not see to garter his
Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out.
While some men leave to do!
I might do't as well i' the dark.
When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear
Exeunt
Herself's a bawd: let not the virgin's cheek
That they have let the dangerous enemy
sigh like Tom o' Bedlam. O, these eclipses do
be Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood.
But I have none: the king-becoming graces,
And celebrate our drink?
Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought.
Through the velvet leaves the wind,
Which yet from her by no means can I get.
'Item: She is curst.'
Thus to have said,
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
SCENE I. London. A gallery in the palace.
So mightily betray'd! yet at the first
The garboils she awaked; at the last, best:
That we find out the cause of this effect,
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring;
With what a sharp-provided wit he reasons!
He therefore sends you, meeter for your spirit,
O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some of
courser, for my horse is my mistress.
Faith, thou hast some crotchets in thy head. Now,
And to survey his dead and earthly image,
The man that makes his toe
the old play, that every one may pare his nails with
That one by one pursue: if you give way,
thee, I have been blown out of your gates with
Have I not heard the sea puff'd up with winds
it, and the lady hath it: sweet clown, sweeter
God speed fair Helena! whither away?
God and Saint George! Richmond and victory!
Arise sir Richard and Plantagenet.
Seize him, AEdiles!
Most bitterly on you, as putter on
Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands,
Will I my master's tears to you deplore.
His oration to his Army
And draw within the compass of suspect
Should hazard such a place as his own second
Who call'd me traitor, mountaineer, and swore
He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness
Come, come, you know I gave it you even now.
Let's see your piece.
Than your good words. But who comes here?
Tarry you a little-a while.
Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
Enter TROILUS
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
A glooming peace this morning with it brings;
Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
good counsel.
No, 'tis impossible he should escape,
To be hanged.
Exit BIRON
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it
DON
deuce-ace amounts to.
To offer war where they should kneel for peace;
And how do you?
Of parallels, as like as Vulcan and his wife:
Enter CERES
If I do not, damn me.
Hark, hark!
Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument?
Is he not like thee? is he not thine own?
Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio,
inquire further after me; I had talk of you last
wilt hear me,
Exeunt
How long hath he been there?
Brake off our business for the Holy Land.
And quoted joint by joint.
Thersites' body is as good as Ajax',
We have a power on foot; and I had purpose
Or did it from his teeth.
Was broke in twain; by whom I have forgot,
Exit
That is the way to make her scorn you still.
That our renowned Rome, whose gratitude
If you will have Revenge from hell, you shall:
And less than this, I am sure, you cannot give.
To serve me last, that I may longest keep
Look, how you butt yourself in these sharp mocks!
I will stand betwixt you and danger.
I will bestow you where you shall have time
you to suspend your indignation against my
Destroying them for wealth.
Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick
And so am I for no woman.
Presenting a letter
firm faith.
Who comes with her?
Enter FALSTAFF, BARDOLPH, NYM, and PISTOL
I do not think there is any such woman.
The which shall turn you to no further harm
That never saw 'em pace before, the spavin
Your death has eyes in 's head then; I have not seen
Not so, an't please your worship.
Great is the rumor of this dreadful knight,
In forty minutes.
Every letter he hath writ hath disvouched other.
Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo: down!
Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
Our madams mock at us, and plainly say
By her he had two children at one birth.
Malice ne'er meant: our breach of duty this way
Do not betray me, sir. I fear you love Mistress Page.
As from the body of contraction plucks
Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
What's the matter, lady?
It was much like to do: he answer'd, 'Tush,
Not so; but it hath been the longest night
O peers of England, shameful is this league!
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
pricking it for pity. Come, you shall go with us.
What is your gracious pleasure?
Those that we bury back, our monuments
And so, ere answer knows what question would,
Due to some single breast?
Hail!
What you command, that rests in me to do.
For which, the most high gods not minding longer
They knock
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
Good angels guard thee from the boar's annoy!
The government of patience! You have won:
Shall marry her at Pentapolis. And now,
Nothing but bonfires: the oracle is fulfilled; the
Knocking within
most courtly and fashionable: performance is a kind
company. Is that the meaning of 'accost'?
For yet ere supper-time must I perform
Three months from twelve; then, let me see; the rate--
To pity too.
He puts the handkerchief from him; and it drops
makes honest, and those that she makes honest she
To your good prayers will scarcely say amen.
Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.
What please yourself, sir: I have made it for you.
How, sir! are you in earnest then, my lord?
Well, here I am set.
[Aside to GREGORY]  Is the law of our side, if I say
In that respect, then, like a loving child,
Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.
As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye,
but even now. Whoa, ho, hoa!
And therefore is she born to make black fair.
And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you
And be a day before our husbands home:
The worthy fellow is our general: he's the rock, the
droplets which
Unless the nightly owl or fatal raven:
To suffer, with a quietness of spirit,
When Caesar says 'do this,' it is perform'd.
A lack of Timon's aid, hath sense withal
Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm! awake!
Lychorida, our nurse, is dead:
Countless and infinite, yet would I pay them!
sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in
Exeunt
The sooner her vile thoughts to stead,
then? In respect of the love he bears our house:
Exit FALSTAFF
The mariners say how thou hast disposed
As secretly and justly as your soul
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
Hath made me rig my navy; at whose burthen
Say, by this token, I desire his company
Even till unfenced desolation
To us that give you truly: by your patience,
Not shall we need his help these fourteen days.
Unveiling
Who loves another best.
fasted, it was presently after dinner; when you
foresters, gentlemen of the shade, minions of the
From whence this present day he is deliver'd?
Done. The wager?
Exit
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
When she will play with reason and discourse,
And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
Look, therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage
O, the difference of man and man!
one tear: he is a stone, a very pebble stone, and
Though it be honest, it is never good
O ho, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
Nor build their evils on the graves of great men;
True, and they are to meddle with none but the
putting-on; methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before.
Rather corrupt me ever!
Would you have been so brief with him, he would
Haply been absent then.
'Tis all the better;
The sun, that looks upon his worshipper,
And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls
My lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days,
devil himself will not eat a woman: I know that a
SCENE III. Wilds in Gloucestershire.
he will offer to say what methought I had. The eye
Your face, my thane, is as a book where men
She prizes not such trifles as these are:
Here comes Boyet.
And lastly, to confirm that amity
And shall have your will, because our king:
Exeunt SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Rub him about the temples.
I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.
For saying so, there's gold:
Look, what thou want'st shall be sent after thee:
As I hope
Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father,
Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his palate
Marry, they say my uncle grew so fast
Sir, the duke is marvellous little beholding to your
Truly, my name is Cinna.
If not a present remedy, at least a patient
But twice or thrice was 'Proteus' written down.
Or stole it, rather.
I fear the emperor means no good to us.
O sir, I do; and will repute you ever
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
Hie you to Egypt again.
sacrifice: where air comes out, air comes in:
I know you have a gentle, noble temper,
Madam,
Find out thy brother, wheresoe'er he is;
Exit
I depart,--that, as I slew my best lover for the
Hasten his musters and conduct his powers:
What's like to be their words: 'we did request it;
Endows a man but he.
And in these fits I leave them, while I visit
Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell:
Of a full-charged confederacy, and give thanks
Vaughan, and all that have miscarried
Re-enter ACHILLES
This ornament
Is all our travail turn'd to this effect?
It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock
Say they know not, they cannot tell; look grimly,
I have it ready for thee; here it is.
Therefore a health to all that shot and miss'd.
Judas Maccabaeus; this swain, because of his great
Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I:
From London by the king was I press'd forth;
Answer'd my steps too loud.
Or sack this country with a mutiny.
Doth but usurp the sacred name of knight,
We purpose her no shame: give her what comforts
'I have, upon especial cause,
And sit thee by our side:
My name is call'd Vincentio; my dwelling Pisa;
As well as I am doubtless I can purge
Who pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood,
Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
Do thou for him stand:
better told.
Warm and new kill'd.
controversy: as, for example, thou thyself art a
instrument. Now, sweet queen.
These are the parents to these children,
And, having sworn truth, ever will be true.
Here sound retreat, and cease our hot pursuit.
She's gone. I am abused; and my relief
trial: wherein if I be foiled, there is but one
The names of those their nobles that lie dead:
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
them talk of a fardel and I know not what: but he
People and senators, be not affrighted;
Set him breast-deep in earth, and famish him;
She is dead too, our sovereign.
Before you punish him, where he heard this,
Whose souls do bear an equal yoke Of love,
lustrous as ebony; and yet complainest thou of
Of noble Buckingham, my father-in-law:
Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew
Alas poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
What, did they never whisper?
me: I serve her; she is my lady. Why, this is
Re-enter MARCIUS, bleeding, assaulted by the enemy
will be with thee again.
Without delay; and the pretence for this
Be not so hot; the duke
With the next benefit o' the wind.
But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on
DON
Enter VALENTINE
But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
And take thy office from thee, on my peril.
the university.
And mean to make her queen of England.
There is a vice that most I do abhor,
I could not stay behind you: my desire,
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
As by your grace shall be propounded him.
is Thisby's cue: she is to enter now, and I am to
triumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,
My hand would free her, but my heart says no
The carriage of his chafe.
And with him pour we in our country's purge
Farewell all physic: and what follows then?
And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither:
Happy, indeed, as we have spent the day.
Be not you spoke with, but by mighty suit:
Well, then, imprison him: if imprisonment be the
pleading so well for his life. Away with him! he
Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir
And to what end is this? Nay, ladies, fear not;
great cause of the night is lack of the sun; that
It is petter that friends is the sword, and end it:
Will she not forth?
Bid him set on his powers betimes before,
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
And dare not speak their knowledge. Antony
Re-enter CHARMIAN
into my note.
And when I have the bloody Hector found,
O, I am yours, and all that I possess!
And shall I then be used reproachfully?
Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
Say, I, her sovereign, am her subject love.
Or I, I promise thee.
It may be probable she lost it; or
And both are ready in their offices,
Envy and crooked malice nourishment
Nay, I would have you go before me thither.
Or in the beached margent of the sea,
As full of peril and adventurous spirit
All torment, trouble, wonder and amazement
And, for my name of George begins with G,
decrease it upon better acquaintance, when we are
Stabs him
That weep'st to see me triumph? Ay, my dear,
Come away; it is almost clear dawn.
are hungry: if there be any of him left, I'll bury
Enter SEYTON
letter to you; I should have given't you to-day
shoulder, and with his royal finger, thus, dally
My dearest coz,
Come on, then; I will swear to study so,
Or if he do, let it at least be said
To have free speech with you; and it concerns me
And let mischance be slave to patience.
And in the most exact regard support
is your daughter.
And monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
The cloth of honour over her, are four barons
Than you have heard him brag to you he will.
Look, here he comes,
Pale in her anger, washes all the air,
She's well, but bade me not commend her to you.
I take thy groat in earnest of revenge.
'Tis time to fear when tyrants seem to kiss.
I am afeard the life of Helen, lady,
A prince call'd Hector,--Priam is his father,--
Though to no use but still to look on you!
I know not what I shall incur to pass it,
His curses, then from bitterness of soul
There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
Was once thought honest: you have loved him well.
It is a matter of small consequence,
Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed;
Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me
Something that hath a reference to my state
lord's behalf, I come to entreat your honour to
May soon return to this our suffering country
And that is my petition, noble lord:
that thou art heir apparent--But, I prithee, sweet
If you will then see the fruits of the sport, mark
betwixt us. Only, thus far you shall answer: if
Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth
And I'll salute your grace of York as mother,
And take it from a heart that wishes towards you
Some vanity of mine art: it is my promise,
JULIET appears above at a window
Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge.
He bear himself with honourable action,
If he revenge it not, yet will his friends;
On what submissive message art thou sent?
Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
Let's consult together against this greasy knight.
Ding, dong, bell.
A master-leaver and a fugitive:
Do, do.
And, till so much blood thither come again,
As captain shall: simply the thing I am
By his dear absence. Let me go with him.
The queen your mother, and your brother York,
ANTIPHOLUS
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY VI alone
It follows then the cat must stay at home:
shape of two countries at once, as, a German from
And hum at good Cominius, much unhearts me.
The nonpareil of this. O, vengeance, vengeance!
We are men, my liege.
Must lave our honours in these flattering streams,
Jove bless great Ajax!
virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the
So said her woman; and that her sufferance made
There lie thy part.
I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
Good, now, hold thy tongue.
Though they did change me to the meanest bird
Is to exchange one misery with another,
That were to blow at fire in hope to quench it;
The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
I'll be his surety.
That fly me thus? some villain mountaineers?
And time that is so briefly spent
ACT II
Give me your arm:
Cousin of York, we institute your grace
A greater gift! O, that's the sword to it.
What is his name.
As give a crutch to the dead: but our count-cardinal
Not rash like his accusers, and thus answer'd:
which I will be ever to pay and yet pay still.
So cowards fight when they can fly no further;
This night he meaneth with a corded ladder
What, dead, my dove?
Even when their sorrows almost were forgot;
Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send,
Be my last breathing in this mortal world!
Bring in to any of your ancestors.
praised,--to the court I'll knock her back, foot
he is with that which makes him both without and within.
I learnt it out of women's faces. Pray now
all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such
And, to relief of lazars and weak age,
Of grievous penalties; in lieu whereof,
For my life, to break with him about Beatrice.
Chiron, we hunt not, we, with horse nor hound,
Therefore, I say 'tis meet we all go forth
With Eleanor, for telling but her dream?
The strawberry grows underneath the nettle
My substance should be statue in thy stead.
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep,
Hath their keel cut: but fortune's mood
As now I reap at thy too cruel hand!
Have shown to thee such a declining day,
Have more than merited. All friends shall taste
She will find him by starlight. Here she comes; and
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Now, Balthasar,
He says, for Brutus' sake,
While it is hot, I'll put it to the issue.
I will subscribe and say I wrong'd the duke.
Thy hand is but a finger to my fist,
Let Mars divide eternity in twain,
ninescore and seventeen pounds; of which he made
SCENE III. Woods and cave, near the seashore.
'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom,
His honour: O, thine honour, Lewis, thine honour!
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!
Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the
Richmond, in Yorkshire, sent out a boat
our sheep: and would you have us kiss tar? The
If not, Signior Gremio:
I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
And me too, good Lord!
villain! Somebody call my wife. Youth in a basket!
How can it be?
And he of these that can do most of all
What, wilt thou not? then, Clarence, do it thou.
that she may be the better prepared for an answer,
Between who?
Why, that were covetousness.
And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim
Let not that doctor e'er come near my house:
well. Heaven prosper our sport! No man means evil
great wit:' 'Right,' says she, 'a great gross one.'
Royal commanders, be in readiness:
Was in the mouth of every sucking babe;
DON
To make an act of tragic violence:
There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.
Enter Old GOBBO, with a basket
What, standest thou still, and hearest such a
Ghost
But see, his face is black and full of blood,
The wide world's emperor, do I consecrate
Good morrow, carriers. What's o'clock?
Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
I must from this enchanting queen break off:
How! away!
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen
I speak not to that railing Hecate,
These be the stops that hinder study quite
The very heart of kindness.
And fitter is my study and my books
May be absolved in English.
Enter DERCETAS, with the sword of MARK ANTONY
Which thou supposest I have done to thee.
The king of England; when we know the king.
Call'd Robin Goodfellow: are not you he
fellow there, whose villanous saffron would have
I have no will to wander forth of doors,
Launce! by mine honesty, welcome to Milan!
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
As hell, Sir Topas.
I would not draw them; I would have my bond.
The crows to peck the eagles.
Ay, and this.
in private;
than I can: you may ask your father; here he comes.
To be his purveyor: but he rides well;
Come, sirs, convey me to the block of shame;
Ay, see the bishop be not overborne.
Comes to him, where in gore he lay insteep'd,
Which oft our stage hath shown; and, for their sake,
And that craves wary walking. Crown him?--that;--
But few now give so great ones. My barge stays;
That jack-an-apes with scarfs: why is he melancholy?
For York in justice puts his armour on.
But I am shepherd to another man
As index to the story we late talk'd of,
Be collected:
My education been in arts and arms;
Madam, I have a secret to reveal.
Aside to BRUTUS
Nor thrust your head into the public street
But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd,
What wrong is this unto the prince your son!
I understand you not.
Are come to have some conference with his grace.
Well, there's for you: leave us.
Make me revenger. Bear the king's son's body
Is prisoner to the bishop here, at whose hands
Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.
Our most persisted deeds.
With an invisible and subtle stealth
As was your former; but she shall be such
And so doth mine: I muse why she's at liberty.
What rubbish and what offal, when it serves
Please your highness, note
Yet show some pity.
I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard,
A man of complements, whom right and wrong
That's your superstition.
You have often
Didst perceive it?
Thy father was, as thou art, Duke of York;
I do not fly, but advantageous care
and a throng! To your manor of Pickt-hatch! Go.
Not till you have slept; I fear me you'll be in till then.
and, which is more, a householder, and, which is
Yea, and to tickle our noses with spear-grass to
And even that falsehood, in itself a sin,
There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.
Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make
To the good of your most sacred person and
Three-piled hyperboles, spruce affectation,
How fares my noble lord?
Thy God's, and truth's; then if thou fall'st,
Shall be to me even as the dew to fire,
Pucelle or puzzel, dolphin or dogfish,
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
green, when it was so dark thou couldst not see thy
And so the lion vanished.
As it hath much prevail'd on your condition,
Was crown'd in Paris but at nine months old.
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
A little gale will soon disperse that cloud
Seems to cry out, 'How shall that Claribel
The Ladies mask
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
But match to match I have encounter'd him
We have some haste, Leonato.
indeed, for I love thee against my will.
Come, come, return; return, thou wandering lord:
Father, you cannot disinherit me:
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
There is a thousand Hectors in the field:
To doubtful fortunes; sequestering from me all
There, where your argosies with portly sail,
Every one.
By fixing it upon a fairer eye,
To meet her new-beloved any where:
And bid me be advised how I tread.
Not in my husband's nose.
All men's faces are true, whatsome'er their hands are.
As I belong to worship and affect
verify as much in his beard: be has no more
As if he were the right Vincentio
Good madam, make me blessed in your care
Pray you, sir, deliver me this paper.
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
I must and will have Katharina to my wife.
violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo; answer his
I desire to find him so, that I may worthily note him.
See, here's to Jove, and this to Mercury;
I'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience;
So fare my limbs with long imprisonment.
the two learned men have compiled in praise of the
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
An thou wert a lion, we would do so.
Why then you are utterly shamed, and he's but a dead
I know thee well; how dost thou, my good fellow?
Had virtuous uncles to protect his grace.
Which I left with her?
The unreasonable fury of a beast:
The trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE  HENRY, LORD JOHN LANCASTER, EARL OF WESTMORELAND, with WORCESTER and VERNON prisoners
a harmless fairy, has done little better than
But she as far surpasseth Sycorax
How now Ulysses!
There is no tarrying here; the hart Achilles
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
to the most wholesome physic of thy health-giving
Of one I danced withal.
Princes and noble lords,
fashion, i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan's
That Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about,
fourth, the Reproof Valiant; the fifth, the
What is your title?
Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head?
You have a double tongue within your mask,
The noble spirits to arms, they did perform
Was I, in sooth? and I was the first that lost thee.
of my master's horse-tail till they kiss their
Your grace must needs deserve all strangers' loves,
I charm you, by my once-commended beauty,
And not to spend it so unneighbourly!
The ladies, her attendants of her chamber,
Combine together 'gainst the enemy;
Believe me, I do not believe thee, man;
Haste, signify so much; while we attend,
I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
SCENE I. A room in the Garter Inn.
And leave your brothers to go speed elsewhere.
To who? to thee? What art thou? Have not I
It pays the hearing double recompense.
Made such a sinner of his memory,
With the first glance that ever--pardon me--
but I shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall
Were mine at once. No, come thou home, Rousillon,
And to your quick-conceiving discontents
Which nature loathes--take thou the destined tenth,
I'll lend you something: my having is not much;
Thus out of season, threading dark-eyed night:
So please my lord the duke and all the court
Those uncles which you want were dangerous;
Here's packing, with a witness to deceive us all!
Our forceful instigation? Our prerogative
Tell him, so please him come unto this place,
Exit
[Aside]  But better, indeed, when you hold your peace.
For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
Stand close.
Peter!
thoroughly woo her, wed her and bed her and rid the
For which the heavens, taking angry note,
Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.
I am a fool, and full of poverty.
You, my good friends,'--this says the belly, mark me,--
See when and where she died.
Than sway with them in theirs.
bitter fool and a sweet fool?
Do it for thy true-love take,
Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
So, proceed you.
The which if you with patient ears attend,
Because methinks that she loved you as well
More sinn'd against than sinning.
Truly, mine host, I must turn away some of my
Nor should that nation boast it so with us,
My masters, let's stand close: my lord protector
dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he
That fallen am I in dark uneven way,
And stood against them, as the hope of Troy
Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
Conferr'd by testament to the sequent issue,
Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O hear me, here!
Is not Gaunt dead, and doth not Hereford live?
Enter SEBASTIAN
and puts me her white hand to his cloven chin--
continue in his courses till thou knowest what they
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind, bastard
The day serves well for them now. I have heard it
look about you: security gives way to conspiracy.
And, for more slander to thy dismal seat,
That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell!
Is numbering sands and drinking oceans dry:
Even in the presence of the crowned king.
Was he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
Like high-rear'd bulwarks, stand before our faces;
It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh,
Exit with Officers
What zeal, what fury hath inspired thee now?
The shaft confounds,
Iago is most honest.
The one part suffer'd, the other will I do.
Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue
Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.
Enter the Ghost of HASTINGS
Your private grudge, my Lord of York, will out,
Lies down and sleeps
All perishen of man, of pelf,
I am friend to them and you: upon which errand
The feast is ready, which the careful Titus
Exit
To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
[Aside]	Too hot, too hot!
Re-enter CRESSIDA
Besides her urging of her wreck at sea,--
Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me:
You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand
How now, Captain Fluellen! come you from the bridge?
That to her brother which I said to thee:
Thou great defender of this Capitol,
Before the palace of Antioch
If ever I did dream of such a matter, Abhor me.
Unless you can find sport in their intents,
Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance
Or so devote to Aristotle's cheques
I will answer you with gait and entrance. But we
'Tis warm at 's heart.
He has his health and ampler strength indeed
affirmation--his to be more fair, virtuous, wise,
O brave spirit!
Let good Antonio look he keep his day,
No, not an oath: if not the face of men,
As seal to this indenture of my love,
Where did you dwell when I was King of England?
[First nodding]  Ay.
Enter OXFORD and SOMERSET
You should enjoy, were you this country's king,
To his own portion! and what expense by the hour
Who married Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March:
I'll win this Lady Margaret. For whom?
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
Lay me, O, where
Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
And chance it as it may.
And shut the gates for safety of ourselves;
That I advise your shunning.
For thou exist'st on many a thousand grains
Scorn and derision never come in tears:
charitably dispose of any thing, when blood is their
More than my brother: 'Ay,' quoth my uncle
To silence envious tongues. Be just, and fear not:
SCENE II. The same.
So in the earth, to this day is not known:
the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject
If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard kill'd him.
Yet standing in rich place, I multiply
When I spoke that, I was ill-temper'd too.
For thine own future safety.
But the two rings.
They shall be famed; for there the sun shall greet them,
And now, young lords, was't not a happy star
Start not; her actions shall be holy as
So, let the ports be guarded: keep your duties,
Exit. Alarums
Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
of a lion.
What man was he talk'd with you yesternight
What, with me too, Thersites?
Mine eyes are full of tears, I cannot see:
Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which
Staring full ghastly like a strangled man;
Of all his people and freeze up their zeal,
Raising his voice
Ay, or a stomach.
I do not care: I'll give thrice so much land
His majesty
CARDINAL
Enter IDEN
Foul devil, for God's sake, hence, and trouble us not;
Madam, your father here doth intimate
What, hath your grace no better company?
that I may repent.
Both fill'd and running, ravening first the lamb
To whom?
Heaven prosper the right! What weapons is he?
My friend is dead; 'tis done at your request:
And give our vineyards to a barbarous people.
Doth comfort thee in thy sleep: live, and flourish!
Against the Scot, who will make road upon us
When she did think my master loved her well,
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
To overgo thy plaints and drown thy cries!
First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd,
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM and the rest
Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
Come in, and let us banquet royally,
Exeunt severally
And quicken his embraced heaviness
I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing.
Though they be never so ridiculous,
Thou injurious thief,
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
There is expectance here from both the sides,
SCENE V. Cymbeline's tent.
God and your arms be praised, victorious friends,
As shall revenge his death before I stir.
And show'd me silks that he had bought for me,
Not knowing how to find the open air,
O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
And honest Casca, we have the falling sickness.
Though I am bound to every act of duty,
hath gelded the commonwealth, and made it an eunuch:
How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus
John hath seized Arthur; and it cannot be
Were equal poise of sin and charity.
Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come
And here's to right our gentle-hearted king.
My liege, this haste was hot in question,
Varro's
Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
To undergo such ample grace and honour,
I am soldier to, and will abide it with
England, thou hast not saved one drop of blood,
And not have title of an earldom here.
I go.
Not wounding, pity would not let me do't;
To trust man on his oath or bond;
Lest that it make me so unsound a man
left arm, that I amazed ran from her as a witch:
And speak't again, my lord; no more with me.
Have we done aught amiss,--show us wherein,
But, with a proud majestical high scorn,
That our great king himself doth woo me oft
Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that my two ears
Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
Upon my life, Lamond.
A slave, that still an end turns me to shame!
He was a man, take him for all in all,
shoeing-horn in a chain, hanging at his brother's
English; wilt thou have me?
Through Gloucestershire; by which account,
orthography, as to speak dout, fine, when he should
highness feed?
Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee!
There Minotaurs and ugly treasons lurk.
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
As if his life lay on't.
Enter Provost and POMPEY
I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword: one stroke
Smithfield.
That blind priest, like the eldest son of fortune,
A night is but small breath and little pause
Another Hero!
this is the time that the unjust man doth thrive.
And keep the gate of hell!
Caesar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt;
an old faced ancient: and such have I, to fill up
he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
[To KING RICHARD III]
But he's deceived; we are in readiness.
Enter a Messenger with letters
Upon his own report and I believe it;
No, no: but all this did I know before.
To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,
And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
None does offend, none, I say, none; I'll able 'em:
The lists and full proportions, are all made
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
Help, Lucius, help!
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
your oration; and let him deliver the pigeons to
As full of labour as a wise man's art
My dear Othello!
No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip:
That blood which owed the breadth of all this isle,
No, sir; that were fast and loose: thou shalt to prison.
Doublets, I think,--flew up; and had their faces
the sensible Benedick's head?
He flatters you, makes war upon your life.
And often, to our comfort, shall we find
Full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights,
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
To keep it builded, be the ram to batter
The lamentable change is from the best;
Diana, to take heed of the allurement of one Count
But prosper better than the Trojan did.
When those that gave the thane of Cawdor to me
And as his father here was conqueror,
I have spoke this, to know if your affiance
Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know
Pray now, no more.
Well, sir.
His viands sparkling in a golden cup,
I am hurt.
Serve by indenture to the common hangman:
cables of perdurable toughness; I could never
The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady,
Pray God he may acquit him of suspicion!
I rest much bounden to you: fare you well.
Dwell in his musings: but I am afraid
Sir,
You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?
thousand pound ere a' be cured.
Hearing of your arrival in this realm,
Healthful; and ever since a fresh admirer
Pay with falsehood false exacting,
Their eyes do offices of truth, their words
To him, and to his substitutes.
As he shall smile, Othello shall go mad;
Alarum and retreat within. Re-enter EDGAR
More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.
Boys, bid him welcome.
Exeunt ISABELLA, LUCIO, and Provost
Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night;
Unto the rigour of severest law.
I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find
see the light of our fairies. Remember, son Slender,
Hath overta'en mine act.
ACT III
Which brought us hither.
Enter APEMANTUS
Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.
but as thou art prince, I fear thee as I fear the
Hence, sirs; away!
Youth's a stuff will not endure.
For our bad neighbour makes us early stirrers,
to in a month.
His nature is too noble for the world:
What, ho, Barnardine!
I conjure thee, by all the parts of man
It almost turns my dangerous nature mild.
Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge
She shall go with him: her mother hath intended,
A child-like office.
Is common; every day some sailor's wife,
Is proclamation made, that who finds Edward
Or else it must go wrong with you and me:
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
Much feater than before: my brother's servants
My love and fear glued many friends to thee;
To think that you have aught but Talbot's shadow
The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio:--
In humours like the people of this world,
You praise yourself
Adsum.
Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
being well-advised.
My Lord of York, try what your fortune is.
She hath had too much wrong; and I repent
Who's there?
For violent fires soon burn out themselves;
She will not come: she bids you come to her.
And we, like friends, will straightway go together.
Save him from danger, do him love and honour,
to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no
Sirs, help our uncle to convey him in.
Witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart,
Small joy have I in being England's queen.
You are too absolute;
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and LEPIDUS
Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull,
Exit, attended
Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come!
This way to death my wretched sons are gone;
Revenged may she be on that hateful duke,
And what a prisoner.
hath given it his whore.
looking wildly, and would needs speak with you presently.
To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth,
Then fools you were these women to forswear,
Is dangerous treason: he is come to open
Nothing at this time but my visitation: only I will
Exit
BISHOP
I marvel why I answer'd not again:
My house is not a grange.
SONG
What should he say? We wept after her hearse,
Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me
In my behavior to the majesty,
SCENE II. Another part of the heath. Storm still.
keep his house; and I wash, wring, brew, bake,
And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit,
Look, how thou diest! look, how thy eye turns pale!
Thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife's attire
For underneath an alehouse' paltry sign,
Without impeachment: for, to say the sooth,
opportunity to be required, look you, I will be so
My liege, in Kent the Guildfords are in arms;
For you, great king,
Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense
O, full of careful business are his looks!
Give me thy poniard; you shall know, my boys
you are the first-born; but the same tradition
O, my good lord, the Duke of Cornwall's dead:
A soldier, by the honour-giving hand
Harry Bolingbroke doth humbly kiss thy hand;
To use my lawful sword!
His arms thus leagued: I thought he slept, and put
Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue.
'Tis well borne up.
I would not for a million of gold
Goose, if I had you upon Sarum plain,
Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt;
To lie like pawns lock'd up in chests and trunks,
With all our harts.
Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail
What counsel give you? whither shall we fly?
And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent?
You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not?
An advocate for an imposter! hush!
Exeunt CARDINAL and HASTINGS
I would the state of time had first been whole
My custom always of the afternoon,
Traitor, thou liest.
The Ottomites, reverend and gracious,
Alas, sweet aunt, I know not what you mean.
This is the point.
Romeo.
Exeunt
man a doit.
Where, by her own most clear remembrance, she
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
She is going
God on our side, doubt not of victory.
Exeunt severally
lady; and I offered him my company to a willow-tree,
And I will wish thee never more to dance,
O ceremony, show me but thy worth!
SATURNINUS reads the letter
So I hope;
Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor;
Yet let us all together to our troops,
Which we much rather had depart withal
news, then, in your paper?
Are penitent for your default to-day.
Not as deserved.
I never saw but Humphrey Duke of Gloucester
Why should that name be sounded more than yours?
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
purpose you undertake is dangerous;'--why, that's
All fortune to the good Simonides!
Not I, honey-sweet queen. I long to hear how they
With any scruple; your scope is as mine own
with thee.
sorry that you are paid too much; purse and brain
My country's good with a respect more tender,
Become thy great birth nor deserve a crown.
And since you call'd me master for so long,
I left him private,
My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to
And at that time he got his wife with child:
Of chamber-hanging, pictures, this her bracelet,--
Our duties, and the pledge.
Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words,
When as the noble Duke of York was slain,
Not now.
not he be there again? In my house I am sure he is:
Exeunt Ladies
We'll all present ourselves, dis-horn the spirit,
If you require a little space for prayer,
Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
And shall perchance do good: but speak you on;
I will so. What's the matter?
No; then he will say 'twas done cowardly, when he wakes.
show in the posterior of this day, to be rendered by
Noble Ventidius! Well;
Ah, one that was a woful looker-on
Instructed by the antiquary times,
with the oaken garland.
I'll show the virtue I have borne in arms.
Have some malignant power upon my life:
Another stain, as big as hell can hold,
Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY
Enter Nurse, with cords
Exit DEMETRIUS
But is my husband coming?
He had rather see the swords, and hear a drum, than
with him, if thou standest not i' the state of
There are yet missing of your company
To answer like himself: if Caesar move him,
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en:
Then, Saunder, sit there, the lyingest knave in
Hark in thine ear.
and eat, I swear--
And then in post he came from Mantua
nay-word, that you may know one another's mind, and
Then you are weakly made: pluck off a little;
know not what pride is.
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,
What cannot be eschew'd must be embraced.
Which now goes too free-footed.
Envelope you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?
The thunder of my cannon shall be heard:
That vulgars give bold'st titles, ay, and privy
The husbandry and manage of my house
maiden walls that war hath never entered.
Our vessel is of Tyre, in it the king;
that ever I heard.
Then, I confess,
the heart of my message.
This is the prison. What is he lies here?
I fear, I fear,--
should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must
To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
with you: I'll see if his head will stand steadier
In our own filth drop our clear judgments; make us
Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
If study's gain be thus and this be so,
Enter a Messenger
behavior every where.
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
Of English Henry, shall this night appear
Depart again: here, here will I remain
Re-enter Knight
the peace, if I see a sword out, my finger itches to
The better to beguile. This is for all:
Besides, her intercession chafed him so,
That Margaret shall be queen, and none but she.
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
look on. That dissembling abominable varlets Diomed,
I leave out ceremony.
With this most tender air.
And bow'd like bondmen, kissing Caesar's feet;
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
In the good man's distress! Seek, seek for him;
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
Crown'd by the name of Henry the Fourth,
Noise again
Rome, be as just and gracious unto me
Nay, let me alone for swearing.
Mercy itself and frees all faults.
You mistake, sir; I am sure no man hath any quarrel
Come, stand thou by our side;
play the workman. I dare speak it to myself--for it
You might have spoken a thousand things that would
O, for two special reasons;
Are heavy orisons 'gainst this poor wretch!
This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein
them the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the
His soul is so enfetter'd to her love,
welcome dear.
have now found thee; when I lose thee again, I care
That liked, but had a rougher task in hand
You must eat men. Yet thanks I must you con
I wonder at it.
Thanks, noble peer;
Therefore, good mother,--I must can you so--
Ariel, thy charge
Tell him he shall not speak with me.
give me your hand. How does your drum?
Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field!
A scatter'd smile, and that I'll live upon.
Your preparation can affront no less
I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two;
And, certes, the text most infallibly concludes it.
And this, so sole and so unmatchable,
And he shall pardon thee these outrages.
And stands alone.
Should grieve thee more than streams of foreign gore:
There was not such a gracious creature born.
And send them thither: but at hand, at hand,
Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
O, keep me from their worse than killing lust,
With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries;
Up to his pleasure, ransomless and free:
Embowell'd will I see thee by and by:
Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.
perpend: civet is of a baser birth than tar, the
I will satisfy you, if ever I satisfied man, and you
observe; I give thee warning on't.
And to such men of gravity and learning,
Merciful heaven!
Why, you know 'tis dimpled: I think his smiling
Sir Toby, there you lie.
Think upon me! hang 'em!
Attend your office and your quality.
We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
Deserves your hate; and your affections are
So long as I could see.
The dangers of the time. You swore to us,
Flourish. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, with DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, and others
limits of order.
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
Of all thy suitors, here I charge thee, tell
your reasons:
No, my good knight;
Alarum and retreat. Enter CADE and all his rabblement
Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife:
What are you?
My purse, my person, my extremest means,
Without assistance.
O me, lieutenant! what villains have done this?
It is the law, not I condemn your brother:
And with ridiculous and awkward action,
therefore it behoves men to be wary.
Which, when I saw rehearsed, I must confess,
perpendicular,--
How can she be with him? When was she missed?
If not, the city being but of small defence,
So that, in this unjust divorce of us,
I have sworn 't.
For my lads to give their dears:
A thriving issue: there is no lady living
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that:
Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio.
Behold, I pray you!
Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
I'll see what I can do.
Enter ANTONIO
7. SUFFOLK, in his robe of estate, his coronet
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
Good, and valiant.
Had he not reason, Lord Demetrius?
Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!
Yet I was mortally brought forth, and am
I know it well, sir; you always end ere you begin.
Could you not have told him
What could the belly answer?
And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
Where dwellest thou?
With reverend fathers and well-learned bishops.
With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart,
and free him.
I must to him too,
Exeunt LANCASTER and WESTMORELAND
Thy name?
stones; by gar, he shall not have a stone to throw
His service and his counsel.
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
To leave that latest which concerns him first,
You heard what this knave told me, did you not?
And Britons strut with courage.
And mine shall ring thy dire departure out.
Be judged by subject and inferior breath,
The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead,
And let him find it. Trifles light as air
My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage
That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her,
Where then
Thou hast one son; for his sake pity me,
How shall I understand you?
Who can do good on him?
My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love;
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
me like a dog; and told me I had white hairs in my
[Aside]	Praise in departing.
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
Stand these poor people's friend, and urge the king
The same, sir.
Exit
Exeunt Bawd, Pandar, and BOULT
To breathe this news; yet what I say is true.
And Cytherea all in sedges hid,
The man from Sicyon,--is there such an one?
Yes, for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle,
And say it is not so.
We are their parents and original.
To draw my answer from thy articles?
O traitors and bawds, how earnestly are you set
Report of fashions in proud Italy,
Hath not been used to fear. Even now I tremble
All that is mine I leave at thy dispose,
Love you the man that wrong'd you?
Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,
Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.
May call it back again. Well, believe this,
You take pleasure then in the message?
Exit
Exeunt DUCHESS and other prisoners, guarded
A ramping fool, to brag and stamp and swear
There is a lady in Verona here
That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat
To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are:
To this detested groom.
Yield at entreats; and then let me alone:
And there lacks work; anon he's there afoot,
But here's a villain that would face me down
Thou hast redeem'd thy lost opinion,
That tell black tidings.
Well, may you see things well done there: adieu!
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
Away, thou issue of a mangy dog!
and that soundly: you cannot tell who's your friend:
Of their white flags display'd, they bring us peace,
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk,
My name is Harry Percy.
A flourish with drums and trumpets. Exeunt
The skies, the fountains, every region near
Of all this table, say so.
In all the rest show'd a most noble patience.
Cursed be that heart that forced us to this shift!
If you go on thus, you will kill yourself:
As well as one so great and so forlorn
O, make them joyful, grant their lawful suit!
I am my father's heir and only son:
The noble duke hath sworn his coming is
Read it not, noble lords;
It is too true an evil: gone she is;
Be stamp'd upon it.
To this supposed, or else to let him suffer;
What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them,
Ere human statute purged the gentle weal;
Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
Into the blind cave of eternal night.
According to the which, thou shalt discourse
And may enjoy such quiet walks as these?
In blood of those that had encounter'd him:
Than I did truly find her, stakes this ring;
I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the old
To come at traitors' calls and do them grace.
Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance:
[Aside]  Her looks do argue her replete with modesty;
As Humphrey, proved by reasons, to my liege.
If she be made of white and red,
O, tell, tell.
Two curs shall tame each other: pride alone
O, negligent and heedless discipline!
none of Pygmalion's images, newly made woman, to be
And, which is more, she is not so divine,
Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer:
What's she?
Is this of hers! Lord cardinal, will your grace
My Lord of Gloucester, now ye grow too hot:
It doth contain a king; King Richard lies
stare him out of his wits; I will awe him with my
Woe, woe for England! not a whit for me;
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
What tell'st thou me of robbing? this is Venice;
A sceptre snatch'd with an unruly hand
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
Here in the streets, desperate of shame and state,
Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
adornment of my qualities. With that suit upon my
And shows the ragged entrails of the pit:
He shall kill two of us, and men indeed:
Flourish
And mine, with my heart in't; and now farewell
They will, they will, God knows,
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together:
Long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me,
With bills on their necks, 'Be it known unto all men
yours? What's here!
turn you out of doors, never trust me.
You are a thousand times a properer man
Then be at peace except ye thirst for blood.
Come, you are deceived, I think of no such thing.
It is most true; true, I have married her:
Unless Plantagenet, Duke of York, be king,
Else Paris and the medicine and the king
To swearing and stern looks, diffused attire
They must be bound and laid in some dark room.
not, hold your tongues.
I'll die for't but some woman had the ring.
Fellow, where goest?
Is, that by sudden floods and fall of waters,
Pays this for Marcus Crassus.
Has he had knowledge of it?
The hart ungalled play;
Here comes his grace in person. My noble uncle!
ANTIPHOLUS
This siren, that will charm Rome's Saturnine,
Go, gentle Marcus, to thy nephew Lucius;
Is almost come.
not ever sad then; for I have heard my daughter say,
That whatsoever I did bid thee do,
To one consent, may work contrariously:
You must not now deny it is your hand:
'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better:
But fathers that bear bags
I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own
Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
Nor fearing me as if I were her father;
talk of his horse; and he makes it a great
would have sworn his disposition would have gone to
And shuddering fear, and green-eyed jealousy! O love,
And all the trouble thou hast turn'd me to?
Quick, quick! we'll come dress you straight: put
Cries out, I was possess'd. Then all together
Ay, spare us not. Say we read lectures to you.
A holy parcel of the fairest dames.
My business is a word or two with Claudio.
Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart:
Loath to bid farewell, we take our leaves.
And even before this truce, but new before,
Re-enter LEONINE
A fault on us, your tribunes; that we laboured,
Whose high upreared and abutting fronts
I will dispatch him to the emperor's court.
and waiting-women. So, bless thee, master!
You urged me as a judge; but I had rather
Enter a Servant
This is not strong enough to be believed
It must be so; for miracles are ceased;
fancy, the jerks of invention? Imitari is nothing:
As rootedly as I. Burn but his books.
Of many desperate studies by his uncle,
As princes do their courts, when they are cloy'd
With his free duty recommends you thus,
Is now eclipsed; and it portends alone
We have made inquiry of you; and we hear
No longer on Saint Denis will we cry,
I'll do 't, my lord.
him; and on that vice in him will my revenge find
And find your grace in health.
And stay thy lady too that lives in thee,
[Aside]          What from Antioch?
Salutes each other with each other's form;
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
Disbursed I duly to his highness' soldiers;
Like the old tale, my lord: 'it is not so, nor
Gaoler, look to him: tell not me of mercy;
As I intended, for it wrought on her
To the madding of her lord. On her left breast
Master's-Mate	And so much shall you give, or off goes yours.
Approaching the bower
speaks holiday, he smells April and May: he will
A place of potency and sway o' the state,
Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
Est-il impossible d'echapper la force de ton bras?
Madam, if't please the queen to send the babe,
Who calls?
Divides one thing entire to many objects;
what art thou?
Without the peril of the Athenian law.
there's no going but by their consent: therefore I
And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it.
Now he denies it faintly, and laughs it out.
Exeunt
Roderigo! no:--yes, sure: O heaven! Roderigo.
Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
To compass such a boundless happiness!
That kings should let their ears hear their
I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
No, fair princess; he is the general challenger: I
Exit
Shall touch the people--which time shall not want,
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
To find his title with some shows of truth,
To my grief, I am
And once again we'll sleep secure in Rouen.
Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
To doff their dire distresses.
Of all the kingdom. Many more there are;
Neither.
What art thou? and how comest thou hither,
It is so; the Count Claudio shall marry the
Flatter my sorrows with report of it;
Enter a Messenger
But did you ever tell him she was false?
You were inspired to do those duties which
Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
Care is no cure, but rather corrosive,
Where Brutus may but find it; and throw this
Unsheathe your sword, and dub him presently.
The French, my lord; men's mouths are full of it:
When back again this ring shall be deliver'd:
By me obey'd!
Sir, call me what thou darest.
And gratulate his safe return to Rome,
Wherefore should you so?
Worth name of life in thee hath estimate,
Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
You know my father left me some prescriptions
By the stern brow and waspish action
Upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie.
Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me,
Where one part does disdain with cause, the other
And you shall be satisfied.
A man of Claudio's years; his beard and head
And chid his truant youth with such a grace
O Eglamour, thou art a gentleman--
But whether I be as true begot or no,
He is composed and framed of treachery:
Was this the idol that you worship so?
What's the matter?
To her, widow!
They are in action.
Reads
He hath abused your powers.
Here comes a flattering rascal; upon him
No Valentine, if Silvia have forsworn me.
Hark you, the king is coming, and I must speak with
As wedged with a sigh, would rive in twain,
His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth
Alarums: excursions. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, and EXETER
That o'er the files and musters of the war
And must I go to him?
Thou rag of honour! thou detested--
Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
That young Prince Edward marries Warwick's daughter.
These quick-sands, Lepidus,
But make amends now: get you gone,
Makes all these bodements.
ACT IV
With a nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant
[Kneeling] And to your royal grace, and the good queen,
Who would be so mock'd with glory? or to live
So, king, go safely on to seek thy son.
We are beastly, subtle as the fox for prey,
You little Jack-a-Lent, have you been true to us?
Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord:
All must be even in our government.
These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet;
How now! what art thou?
You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim
Nay, if you strive--
My name is Thyreus.
I do beseech your royal majesty,
Tell him, my mourning weeds are laid aside,
These are the forgeries of jealousy:
As that which causeth it: how can I moderate it?
Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield;
SCENE VI. Dunsinane. Before the castle.
Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
What became of his bark and his followers?
We must not make a scarecrow of the law,
Thou speak'st like him's untutor'd to repeat:
Jack Cade, the Duke of York hath taught you this.
Less impudence to gainsay what they did
A strong faith to conceal it.
bold-beating oaths, under the shelter of your
Drawing his sword
How know'st thou this?
You can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a
Enter a Courtezan
Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold
'Widow Dido' said you? you make me study of that:
The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother:
what a man cannot smell out, he may spy into.
Is yet but unfelt thanks, which more enrich'd
lady's opinion; where you will hang like an icicle
mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now?
Call hither Clifford! bid him come amain,
That till the father rid his hands of her,
Enter CAPULET and Nurse
Here comes the lord.
My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
By this encompassment and drift of question
And so am come abroad to see the world.
I am your wife, if you will marry me;
Enter a Servant
So are they all, all honourable men--
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
Lewis, determine what we shall do straight.
Arrest them to the answer of the law;
SCENE II. The same.
my blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city
Half all men's hearts are his.
Why, that's well said. Go, get you to my house;
No, take more:
I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers, and made
For in a quarrel since I came ashore
advisings: to the love I have in doing good a
Is the determined respite of my wrongs:
should down.
And have is have, however men do catch:
All the stored vengeances of heaven fall
Mine eyes
O heavenly God!
On's brows: Menenius, he comes the third time home
The language I have learn'd these forty years,
Reading
Who dare cross 'em,
Lays blame upon his promise. Please't your highness
And ride upon their backs; he trod the water,
supplications to his lordship? Let me see them:
Then all afire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand,
That he thereby may give a likely guess
Even so. Poor men alone? No, no; the noblest deer
Out of myself, press me to death with wit.
No,'tis to thyself.
Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
Exeunt
So bloodily hast struck?
Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica:
No, it is 'lapis:' I pray you, remember in your prain.
To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure.
But O how vile an idol proves this god
Twelve cities and seven walled towns of strength,
Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
Than those for preservation cased, or shame--
Well of his wealth; but of himself, so so.
Exeunt
And dangerous success of bloody wars,
Our Lady help my lord! he'll be forsworn.
To royalty unlearn'd, honour untaught,
For the like loss I have her sovereign aid
I do not, sir.
Here's Agamemnon, an honest fellow enough and one
The part my father meant to act upon
Than ever thou lovedst Cassius.
And ditches grave you all!
We do it not alone, sir.
This is his majesty; say your mind to him:
Whether these pearls of praise be his or no;
serve him still.
O, let those cities that of plenty's cup
Like heralds 'twixt two dreadful battles set:
Can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven?
As with a saint.
and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch: one whom I
we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship
Let not my jealousies be your dishonours,
Against him first: he's a very dog to the commonalty.
If broken then, it is no fault of mine:
An undergoing stomach, to bear up
They are infected; in their hearts it lies;
'Tis doubt he will be: letters came last night
Forgive me that I do not dream on thee,
Whose life's as tender to me as my soul!
The other four in wondrous motion.
I pray you all, stand up.
Mistress, upon my life, I tell you true;
Man and wife:
The prenzie Angelo!
Quite through the deeds of men: he loves no plays,
Here, there, and every where, enraged he flew:
Some way of common trade, where subjects' feet
Defiles the pitchy night: so lust doth play
ANTIPHOLUS
Be not so hasty to confound my meaning:
And make triumphant fires; strew flowers before them:
Therefore to arms! be champion of our church,
Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.
Swearing allegiance and the love of soul
is his: I ha' told him on't, but I could ne'er get
Of your complexion.
Than in Lord Angelo.
You are young, Sir Harry Guildford.
When I have found it. The count he wooes your daughter,
I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends; and
For ancient quarrels, and quite lost their hearts.
Mark me now; now will I raise the waters. Talk you
And sleep an act or two; but those, we fear,
north, Percy, and he of Wales, that gave Amamon the
Your highness knows. Their nurse, Euriphile,
Like warlike as the wolf for what we eat;
O barbarous, beastly villains, like thyself!
Abase foul stone, made precious by the foil
Less than an ace, man; for he is dead; he is nothing.
Give me thy glove, soldier: look, here is the
The kings o' the earth for war; he hath assembled
grace! Some say he shall be stoned; but that death
Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
magnanimous, are all one reckonings, save the phrase
That ever love did make thee run into,
Who ever but his approbation added,
To pay him tribute, submit thyself,
constant men be Troiluses, all false women Cressids,
I love not to see wretchedness o'er charged
Yet now they fright me. There is one within,
Whose life was England's glory, Gallia's wonder.
O, wither'd is the garland of the war,
am out of the road of rutting for ever.
Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind; one, two, three.
Exeunt
Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd
Fear not; he bears an honourable mind,
Resolve you.
grieve thee,
Sir, step you forth;
Or with a base and boisterous sword enforce
And serve it thus to me that love it not?
O undistinguish'd space of woman's will!
Some few odd lads that you remember not.
And Duncan's horses--a thing most strange and certain--
I chafe you, if I tarry: let me go.
And never yet could frame my will to it;
These are their tutors: bid them use them well.
Enter DESDEMONA, IAGO, and Attendants
[Within]  What a coil is there, Dromio? who are those
To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
By savage Cleon: she shall tell thee all;
The white hand of a lady fever thee,
Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to.
Why do you stay so long, my lords of France?
So glad of this as they I cannot be,
And able means, we had not parted thus.
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
Then nightly sings the staring owl, 	Tu-whit;
Or say 'tis not your seal, nor your invention:
Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt
You cannot beg us, sir, I can assure you, sir we know
You are already Love's firm votary
she comes weeping for her only mistress' death.
Of all be hated, but the most of me!
I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
And renowned be thy grave!
A modest one, to bear me back again.
Harm not yourself with your vexation
Sit, Coriolanus; never shame to hear
a finer end and went away an it had been any
The which will I; not all so much for love
Loves for his own ends, not for you.
Exeunt
His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
O, content thee.
And ere we have thy youthful wages spent,
crooked face at it. I can't say your worships have
displeasures, and his indignations, and also being a
Flourish of trumpets
Dost seem so ignorant, we'll enforce it from thee
assistant or go-between parted from me: I say I
That were a kind of bastard hope, indeed: so the
King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak,
For husbands, fathers and betrothed lovers,
Bless you, my fortunate lady!
Urge it no more; lest that, instead of words,
And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
So that my errand, due unto my tongue,
On thee, the troubler of the poor world's peace!
as a gib cat or a lugged bear.
Of him that makes it: then, if sickly ears,
My forces and my power of men are yours:
And blazoning our injustice every where?
What is your name?
Or so much as it needs,
Stars, my lord.
gods. Make the meat be beloved more than the man
To him one of the other twins was bound,
To a Servant
to marry me well; and not being well married, it
And 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief
Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
Or if I might buffet for my love, or bound my horse
And seem a saint, when most I play the devil.
How near is he, Mistress Page?
Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
A plague of all cowards, still say I.
there's not a nose among twenty but can smell him
and come every day to my cote and woo me.
should not be conjoined, charge you, on your souls,
Of Cloten's death--we being not known, not muster'd
That no compunctious visitings of nature
The Duke of York commends him to your majesty.
Thaisa was my mother, who did end
Courage and comfort! all shall yet go well.
hair is my father, and all the rest are his sons.'
Kneels
what says Sir John Sack and Sugar? Jack! how
Than hew to't with thy sword.
Enter PUBLIUS, BRUTUS, LIGARIUS, METELLUS, CASCA, TREBONIUS, and CINNA
Shall I have audience? he shall present Hercules in
Besides, she did intend confession
'tis not a maid, for she hath had gossips; yet 'tis
Thou art like the harpy,
kills a sparrow flying.
Fare you well, sir.
Whose state and honour I for aye allow.
To seal our happiness with their consents!
Though in some part enforced to digress;
In characters as red as Mars his heart
In such a presence here to plead my thoughts;
Where no priest shovels in dust. O cursed wretch,
And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with
Which you before so urged, lies in his answer.
For being a little bad: so may my husband.
your full time of imprisonment and your deliverance
What's your name?
Exit FENTON
SCENE IV. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
As soon he shall by me, that thus the cardinal
Madam, I will.
Decrepit miser! base ignoble wretch!
Alas, I am the mother of these moans!
I owe him little duty, and less love;
You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow:
Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for
appears, it will bate.
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
Good even, Varro: what,
buried her grandam; to fast, like one that takes
And you are her labour'd scholar. Come, queen o'
Why, sir, I brought you word an hour since that the
than the fools' zanies.
Unfit for mine own purposes.
Some run from brakes of ice, and answer none:
And threaten present blusters. In my conscience,
SCENE IV. London. The Tower.
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, and I think
By this I challenge him to single fight.
Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
Joy and all comfort in your sacred breast!
Varies again; the grisly north
But do you hear, sir? have you married my daughter
Never so much as in a thought unborn
the matter, he makes the maid to answer 'Whoop, do me
Hath done you both this cursed injury.
But every man betake him to his legs.
To blush and beautify the cheek again.
Take up the English short, and let them know
Religion to the gods, peace, justice, truth,
honourable father.
And I mine too, good Lord!
whoreson must be acknowledged. Do you know this
Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending down
And now in peace my soul shall part to heaven,
Therefore 'twere reason you had manners now.
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
And thou mis-shapen Dick, I tell ye all
Mark what I say, which you shall find
I'll deliver all;
Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that
To wayward sickliness and age in him:
But, my daughter,
'Shall'!
Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood.
Come, sir, your passado.
Here comes your uncle.
As I am confident and kind to thee.
They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience
You amaze me, ladies: I would have told you of good
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
He is my prisoner: if I let him go,
Exit EMILIA
I will hold friends with you, lady.
Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I'll bide your proof.
Take your own way.
Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung.
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
fifty hairs' quoth he, 'and one white: that white
What hath she done, prince, that can soil our mothers?
I fight against thee! No: I will go seek
fiend; 'for the heavens, rouse up a brave mind,'
Snatching an axe from a Servant and killing him
To-night at Herne's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one,
I rode on: it is yours, because you liked it.
Nor understood none neither, sir.
Know you that Friar Lodowick that she speaks of?
When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,
The cause why I have brought this army hither
Nothing but that; move still, still so,
Nay then, I will not: you shall have the mustard,
'For that it saved me, keep it; in like necessity--
People of Rome, and people's tribunes here,
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven,
Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
Venetian admittance.
No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
Yea, my lord. How brooks your grace the air,
To see fair Padua, nursery of arts,
To back thy quarrels, whatsoe'er they be.
But that which ends all counsel, true redress,
rather shunned to go even with what I heard than in
I'll never wear hair on my face more. You Prince of Wales!
Points to his heart
Who's there? Thersites! Good Thersites, come in and rail.
Requires to live in Egypt: which not granted,
Sweet prince, let me go no farther to mine answer:
Yet this my comfort: when your words are done,
By the fool multitude, that choose by show,
Had been the regent there instead of me,
The advised head defends itself at home;
More potent than the first.
ANTIPHOLUS
They'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement.
BERTRAM gives a ring
That is one may reach deep enough, and yet
'Tis certain there's not a boy left alive; and the
you up. Boult's returned.
prophetically proud of an heroical cudgelling that he
unweighed behavior hath this Flemish drunkard
Men must learn now with pity to dispense;
'Against the Duke of Suffolk, for enclosing the
Due for a chain your husband had of him.
Were almost like a sharp-quill'd porpentine;
For I can take, and Pistol's cock is up,
Do, do: he'll but break a comparison or two on me;
Would they were basilisks, to strike thee dead!
trial of you only. Therefore fasten your ear on my
Even in these looks I made.
Hal, if thou see me down in the battle and bestride
Upon my soul, the hearers will shed tears;
And offer me disguised in sober robes
seek him; I'll apprehend him: abominable villain!
Yes, Jack, upon instinct.
Almost with ravish'd listening, could not find
to you.	Your unfortunate son,
Percy is but my factor, good my lord,
His highness having lived so long with her, and she
Behold, this is the happy wedding torch
To cry, good joy: good joy, my lord and lady!
hence the child?
'The humour of it,' quoth a'! here's a fellow
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
Attended on by many a lord and knight.
abstract for the remembrance of such places, and
Go speedily and bring again the count.
She curtsies to KING HENRY VIII, and offers to depart
To thick-eyed musing and cursed melancholy?
If my shirt were bloody, then to shift it. Have I hurt him?
to-morrow, I'll give him his payment: if ever he go
By maidhood, honour, truth and every thing,
It is that fery person for all the orld, as just as
Dumain is mine, as sure as bark on tree.
Till he have cross'd the Severn. Happiness!
And grieve to hear't.
Hence, vile instrument!
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
Pray you, mark.
Women are soft, mild, pitiful and flexible;
Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind;
To enter conquerors and to proclaim
What light is light, if Silvia be not seen?
Of his oath-breaking; which he mended thus,
In coffins from the field;
The help of mine own eyes.
Go one, and call the Jew into the court.
And what a pitch she flew above the rest!
Did not you tell me I should know the man
Why, what should you fear?
In the mean time, what hear you of these wars?
you not heard speak of Mariana, the sister of
O, they eat lords; so they come by great bellies.
Your leave and favour to return to France;
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
lesser linen. My father named me Autolycus; who
Speak, good Cominius:
No, good sir;
your gown;
If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit  down,
Enter EXTON, with persons bearing a coffin
Exit BUCKINGHAM
The armourers, accomplishing the knights,
Exeunt
Under Mars, I.
Oh, sir, upon her nose all o'er embellished with
'Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white
Here is a warrant from
Let's be no stoics nor no stocks, I pray;
And arm the minds of infants to exclaims.
Exit
Taste, touch and smell, pleased from thy tale rise;
No grace? no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature!
Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.
Give me his gage: lions make leopards tame.
Exit weeping, followed by BIANCA and others
At which, like unback'd colts, they prick'd
Or let me die, to look on death no more!
To ease his breast with panting.
Unto the brother of your loving bride;
As of her tongue she oft bestows on me,
Than did the fault before it was so patch'd.
SCENE III. Auvergne. The COUNTESS's castle.
Pyramus, or nothing.
The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain
Be patient; to-morrow 't shall be mended,
Hasting to the court.
BISHOP
knot of his scarf, and the practise in the chape of
Will he be satisfied.
you like me, Kate?
May yet ere night yield both my life and them
What is your news?
such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that
Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers, and
You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful:
Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps, no more;
Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb,
Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,
How his companion, youthful Valentine,
I'll tell you in your ear.
Let that suffice. I have trusted thee, Camillo,
I shall; and bring his answer presently.
Become your time of day; and yours, and yours,
longer than they can sing? will they not say
In thy heart-blood, though being all too base
And then my husband--God be with his soul!
And your fair princess,--goddess!--O, alas!
The property by what it is should go,
But I am constant as the northern star,
Clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done!
Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer.
He throws upon the gross world's baser slaves:
Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee,--
And give the king this fatal plotted scroll.
And you too, sir.
Thou dost speak masterly:
I ne'er might say before. When I came back--
March gently on to meet him.
your servant.
SCENE VIII. Another part of the plains.
Cassio's a proper man: let me see now:
Soft! who are you? Sir Walter Blunt: there's honour
And bring AEneas and the Grecian with you.
Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet.
Pleased you to do't at peril of your soul,
O, this will make my mother die with grief!
Your son, George Stanley: look your faith be firm.
Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids,
and I'll play my father.
speak with you.
Or be inferior to the proudest peer.
receives not thy nose court-odor from me? reflect I
I will be with thee straight.
They are his shards, and he their beetle.
Sweet prince, the untainted virtue of your years
For further life in this world I ne'er hope,
Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms as I have
A nd we were better parch in Afric sun
Or else the law of Athens yields you up--
Henry the Fifth, that made all France to quake,
When such strings jar, what hope of harmony?
'Tis good for men to love their present pains
To purge herself with words: dispatch.
Enter FERDINAND, LONGAVILLE, DUMAIN, BIRON, and Attendants
And bid that strumpet, your unhallow'd dam,
That's a shealed peascod.
To KING LEWIS XI
My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship,
I will revenge his wrong to Lady Bona,
Will vouch the truth of it. Him I accuse
Art thou gone so? I do but stay behind
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
Nay, but to live
Who shall tell Priam so, or Hecuba?
And was a common gamester to the camp.
his rope-tricks. I'll tell you what sir, an she
His word upon you. Since I had my office,
Enter BIONDELLO
And though it be allow'd in meaner parties--
Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help.
How long continued, and what stock he springs of,
obey'd him?
Ha, ha!
And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace,
Thy grace being gain'd cures all disgrace in me.
With the whole quality wherefore: I fear
And therefore comes my brother Montague.
His steeds to water at those springs
Come, how wouldst thou praise me?
that should desire you to touch him, for his biting
Exit Second Messenger
To LUCIO
Ay, that's a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but
For my poor son.
Unquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest.
Is this certain?
When I have most need to employ a friend,
prince; no, fie!
Thus honest fools lay out their wealth on court'sies.
To FLAVIUS
Thou fellow, a word:
there, his brother, the bull,--the primitive statue,
That will I, for I must bear answer back
confidence; and of other wooers.
I serve here voluntarily.
What charitable men afford to beggars.
Not to be helped,--
Sung thee asleep, his loving breast thy pillow:
But that he's well and will be shortly here.
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino;
For the crown'd Truth to dwell in: I will
Alas! he is betray'd and I undone.
And still conclusion, shall acquire no honour
His life was gentle, and the elements
The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark,
By now forswearing that he is forsworn:
Coriolanus in Corioli?
Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? do you
come but in, as others do, to try with him the
So help me God, as I dissemble not!
Nor yet Saint Philip's daughters, were like thee.
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
For I must talk of murders, rapes and massacres,
learnedly handle, though they come to him by the
Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness
How now! what means this, herald? know'st thou not
her rise from her bed, throw her night-gown upon
Down with it flat; take the bridge quite away
What God will have discover'd for revenge;
Kent! father! sisters! What, i' the storm? i' the night?
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
Blame not this haste of mine. If you mean well,
Would tempt unto a close exploit of death?
His love and wisdom,
But yesternight: when all athwart there came
Good uncle, help to order several powers
He is a man; I'll love him as my brother:
And what says she to my little jewel?
Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest.
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
I do applaud thy spirit, Valentine,
You nymphs, call'd Naiads, of the windring brooks,
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
Fit I meet them.
Show me briefly how.
Come hither, boy: ask me this slave in French
Led by the Dauphin.
the time use thee well: good parts in thee.
My heart is sorry for your daughter's death:
When we are both accoutred like young men,
And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass,
above seven times a week; went to a bawdy-house once
That no man hath access by day to her.
I will not slay thee, but I'll drive thee back:
He has made too much plenty with 'em;
Thou, nature, art my goddess; to thy law
there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
That only like a gulf it did remain
Thou disputest like an infant: go, whip thy gig.
You have in manner with your sinful hours
Why should you fear? is not your city strong?
In one of those same sheets.
I will play three myself.
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
Farewell, my lord.
Have had to resort to you: for here have been
on's teeth.
I hope so.
Exeunt
How hast thou offended?
Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch;
From others' labours; for though he strive
I fear, for ever: Milan and Naples have
she will, say what she will, take all, pay all, go
Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives,
But so is not she.
We serve you, madam,
Who told me, in the field by Tewksbury
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Vow, alack, for youth unmeet,
A more content in course of true delight
More noble blows than ever thou wise words;
Sir, if you'ld save your life, fly to your house:
her: that if she love me, I charge her to love
Come, shadow, come and take this shadow up,
A warrant for his execution.
now, come apace to the king: there is more good
You may, sir.
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
And thou shalt find a king that will revenge
simple conjectures: but that is all one. If Sir
Will not your honours bear me company?
[Aside]  I'll write to my lord she's dead. O Imogen,
Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief
With much more ease; for my good will is to it,
Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts,
Thou hast not, cousin;
It cannot be.
For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
O, my lord!
Likely in time to bless a regal throne.
Therefore hear you, mistress; either frame
That is, he will make thee amends.
Now, by my sword, I will kill all his coats;
There is nothing done, if he return the conqueror:
Yet go we under our opinion still
[Within]	Heaven secure him!
Why, it cannot choose but be a noble plot;
My ingenious instrument!
Rive your concealing continents, and cry
She returns this ring to you, sir: you might have
That were the authors.
In heedfull'st reservation to bestow them,
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
Wish himself the heaven's breath.
Which some suppose the soul's frail dwelling-house,
Because my name is George.
Writing their own reproach, to whose soft seizure
What then, do you see?
I will but teach them to sing, and restore them to
Calpurnia!
yours: cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with
What is he that builds stronger than either the
more the pity that some honest neighbours will not
Enter MACBETH
Look there, look there!
He loved me--O false wench!--Give't me again.
To be but named of thee. His meanest garment,
My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
Expedient manage must be made, my liege,
And tugg'd for life and was by strength subdued:
I know their complot is to have my life,
red-faced; by the means whereof a' faces it out, but
When we our betters see bearing our woes,
Expire before the flowers in their caps,
With all the honours on my brother: whereon,
Nay, it shall ne'er be said, while England stands,
ACT I
Exit Ghost
harpy. You have no employment for me?
Oh, he is young and his minority
Exit
But stay, I'll read it over once again.
Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.
harm, and the greatest of my pride is to see my ewes
They fear us not, but issue forth their city.
Do so, and 'tis well.
She is dead.
You put sharp weapons in a madman's hands.
Speak, Salisbury; at least, if thou canst speak:
curiously, say my knife's naught. Shall I not find
If the event o' the journey
I must not yet forsake you: let's be merry:
'Twere pregnant they should square between
Exit
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
What, with my tongue in your tail? nay, come again,
Immediate sentence then and sequent death
I hope he is; but yet let mothers doubt.
What you bestow, in him I'll counterpoise,
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down:
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
all our misery.
ACT II
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
'But a drum'! is't 'but a drum'? A drum so lost!
I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page;
You look as you had something more to say.
appointment, to be ourselves.
His part o' the isle: then does he say, he lent me
O' my word, the father's son: I'll swear,'tis a
And how unwillingly I left the ring,
Now my old arms are young John Talbot's grave.
should have borne the humoured letter to her; but I
Against some part of Poland.
Gentlemen, importune me no farther,
The king comes here to-night.
Bethought me what was past, what might succeed.
Return, good Catesby, to thy lord again;
Quite from their fixure! O, when degree is shaked,
Would have him wed again.
What think you of it?
For but a month ago I went from hence,
Who redeems nature from the general curse
And call itself your brother.
It shall go hard but I'll prove it by another.
To help Cominius.
Money's a medler.
this: I'll none of him.
Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children?
sake, to make no more noise with it.
I care not for thee, Kate: this is no world
Ho! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards,
Those that betray them do no treachery.
I have a letter from Monsieur Biron to one Lady Rosaline.
meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.
Were piety in thine, it is in these.
Save men's opinions and my living blood,
her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool
They are black vesper's pageants.
Amongst the rarest of good ones,--sitting sadly,
As are the swelling Adriatic seas:
She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh
--thou must think there's a necessity in't,--and
to dinner;' there's a double meaning in that 'I took
Whereto we see in all things nature tends--
Gentle madam,
Alas, what need you be so boisterous-rough?
wine: but if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth
Touching the Turkish loss, yet he looks sadly,
If Warwick take us we are sure to die.
digested. You stayed well by 't in Egypt.
I shall continue thankful.
So do we.
But goes thy heart with this?
'What is your parentage?'
I know you well, sir, and you know
We with our stately presence glorify,
what is 'that' but 'that,' and 'is' but 'is'?
But in the presence of the prioress:
Let them hang.
In the same fashion as you gave in charge,
My lord?
Should so with civil and uncivil arms
Hath, with the courage which the heart did lend it,
it comes to pass oft that a terrible oath, with a
Crying 'Long live! hail, Caesar!'
It will the woefullest division prove
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the
friends, drove him into this melancholy.
Between us and the emperor, the queen's great nephew,
Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found;
Fetch Desdemona hither.
Yet in some measure satisfy her so
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
Exit Servant
Re-enter Attendant, with a glass
Of such a burden, male twins, both alike:
Flourish of trumpets: then hautboys. Enter KING  HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and  CARDINAL, on the one side; QUEEN MARGARET, SUFFOLK, YORK, SOMERSET, and BUCKINGHAM, on the other
Be gone;
You are my father, for methinks in you
Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
Pours into captains' wounds? Banishment!
And will upon the instant put thee to't:
Trumpets, sennet, and cornets. Enter two Vergers,  with short silver wands; next them, two Scribes, in  the habit of doctors; after them, CANTERBURY alone;  after him, LINCOLN, Ely, Rochester, and Saint  Asaph; next them, with some small distance, follows  a Gentleman bearing the purse, with the great seal,  and a cardinal's hat; then two Priests, bearing  each a silver cross; then a Gentleman-usher  bare-headed, accompanied with a Sergeant-at-arms  bearing a silver mace; then two Gentlemen bearing  two great silver pillars; after them, side by side,  CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS; two Noblemen  with the sword and mace. KING HENRY VIII takes  place under the cloth of state; CARDINAL WOLSEY and  CARDINAL CAMPEIUS sit under him as judges. QUEEN  KATHARINE takes place some distance from KING  HENRY VIII. The Bishops place themselves on each  side the court, in manner of a consistory; below  them, the Scribes. The Lords sit next the Bishops.  The rest of the Attendants stand in convenient order about the stage
Be a sufficient ransom for offence,
To this submission. Yet I well remember
foul with me, Pistol, I will scour you with my
Enter BIRON, with a paper
SCENE VI. A field of battle.
For never two such kingdoms did contend
down, king!
were to put good meat into an unclean dish.
Do then: but I'll not hear.
Rely upon it till my tale be heard,
Suppose they take offence without a cause,
I never wish'd to see you sorry; now
And call him to long peace.
Whom I with pain have woo'd and won thereto;
The regent hath with Talbot broke his word
Where shall we take a purse tomorrow, Jack?
Her hair is auburn, mine is perfect yellow:
What, man! more water glideth by the mill
feel, will break the back of man, the heart of monster.
For valour, is not Love a Hercules,
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
These signs have mark'd me extraordinary;
threatened to beat her.
is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but in
They say, by him the good Duke Humphrey died;
yourselves. Speak to 'em, fool.
the street.
And his contract by deputy in France;
I will conclude to hate her, nay, indeed,
Where hast thou led me? I perhaps speak this
Would take no notice, nor build yourself a trouble
Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly used,
All our bills.
SCENE I. London. The palace.
But to be free and bounteous to her mind:
How I might stop this tempest ere it came;
loves thee not: thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius.
Unto their lords, by them accomplished:
find in their hearts the poor unvirtuous fat knight
Go to, then.
only peacemaker; much virtue in If.
And fled he is upon this villany.
Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong
words may quickly make them wanton.
As surely as my soul intends to live
Away even now, or I will drag thee hence:
They all bustle about CORIOLANUS, crying
DON
Exit
Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as
I would it were,
Only make trial what your love can do
place and person, generally allowed for your many
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
Have we mow'd down, in tops of all their pride!
Of the great count himself, she is too mean
Some blessed power deliver us from hence!
He fastened on my neck, and bellow'd out
Long live she so! and long live you to think so!
do fructify in us more than he.
But in a fainter kind:--O, not like me;
Our reverend cardinal carried.
To gripe the general sway into your hand;
By inspiration of celestial grace,
Have I not pawn'd to you my majesty?
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
Yes.
And he repents not that he pays your debt;
To fall and blast her pride!
[Kneeling]  Long live Queen Margaret, England's
then another fault in the semblance of a fowl; think
Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
He, doing so, put forth to seas,
O, had the monster seen those lily hands
Always reserved my holy duty--what
pyramises are very goodly things; without
My brother slew no man; his fault was thought,
Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies:
Or, had he heard the heavenly harmony
What art thou?
Why, so didst thou: seem they grave and learned?
Coming forward
To the gold
And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first.
ANTIPHOLUS
To ARIEL
Hath a distracted and most wretched being,
thee; else thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and
If wounding, then it was to show my skill,
Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.
I wonder, doctor,
None that I know will be, much that I fear may chance.
I know not what you mean by that; but, I am sure,
Give us some seats. Come, cousin Angelo;
Yes, marry, did I	but I was fain to forswear it;
And by whose help I mean to chastise it.
'Tis time
Since summer first was leafy:
Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck up,
Down, strumpet!
And thou, Hortensio, with thy loving widow,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
I play'd the cheater for thy father's hand,
If the winds rage, doth not the sea wax mad,
Hail!
Great Master of France, the brave Sir Guichard Dolphin,
From action and adventure?
Conceptions only proper to myself,
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
Where is it, Jack? where is it?
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
Tell him Revenge is come to join with him,
Falls into forfeit: he arrests him on it;
I thank you, madam, that you tender her.
Go sleep, and hear us.
Saving your merry humour, here's the note
Or I am much deceived, cuckolds ere now;
warrant. Why, this hits right; I dreamt of a silver
I'll have mine action of battery on thee.
who know it; I will confess it to all the 'orld: I
And laugh upon the apple of her eye?
And what God will, that let your king perform;
DON
Come, go we then together.
What, was your vizard made without a tongue?
And sight of men.
Like Turk to Christian: women's gentle brain
Nay, rather turn this day out of the week,
Hark, Petruchio; she says she'll see thee
Nay, but he prated,
Lucilius' Servant	So much?
I should lament thy miserable state.
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
Pope Innocent, I do demand of thee.
Ay.
Conceiving the dishonour of his mother,
Though most dishonestly he doth deny it.
Ay, my lord;
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Meet me and Gratiano
Lend less than thou owest,
Exeunt
myself, fidelicet myself; and the three party is,
Thou noble thing! more dances my rapt heart
And laid mine honour too unchary out:
As ever hit my nostril. So, up with it.
Give him the cup.
To the last hour of act; and then 'tis thought
Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder,
Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut
Re-enter MARCUS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
You are dull, Casca, and those sparks of life
I could do this, and that with no rash potion,
The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept:
And that I'll spend for him.
I weigh my friend's affection with mine own;
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
Enter Host and BARDOLPH
Heaven forgive him too!
To look our dead, and then to bury them;
Our royal, good and gallant ship, our master
Make good this ostentation, and you shall
and there is an end.
A woman sometimes scorns what best contents her.
Whose reverence even the head-lugg'd bear would lick,
Take up the body.
Much comfort in't; says 'My poor prisoner,
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.
Useth the sparrow; did oppress our nest;
What louring star now envies thy estate,
issues, being foolish, do not derogate.
And downright languish'd. Leave me solely: go,
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
Trot, like a servile footman, all day long,
Good Margaret, run thee to the parlor;
lieve be a condemned man.
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
If you go out in your own semblance, you die, Sir
And take with you free power to ratify,
To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
Sweet Phebe, pity me.
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Without eyes, ears and harmful sound of words;
Rest you, whiles I lament King Henry's corse.
How now, Master Brook! Master Brook, the matter
Unto whose grace our passion is as subject
By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth,
But yet indeed the lesser is his daughter
Whoa ho! ho, father Page!
And bring them after in the best advantage.
If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
That murder'd me: I would forget it fain;
Why do you say 'thwack our general '?
should be like the case!
himself is in love with Mistress Anne Page: but
Now, as I live, I will. My nobler friends,
In titles, honours and promotions,
His war for Britain.
To be your Valentine.
Right in thine eye. Away, my friends! New flight;
Fashion it thus; that what he is, augmented,
What mean you?
Yet, I pray you:
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
but I dote on his very absence, and I pray God grant
Why, how now, Dromio! where runn'st thou so fast?
for he is very slow-gaited. But I go.
And any thing that may not misbecome
Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower.
then, death, death!
Be these sad signs confirmers of thy words?
But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.
Why, shall we turn to men?
Enter SILVIA above
Enter PERICLES, CLEON, DIONYZA, and LYCHORIDA with MARINA in her arms
Our doubtful hope, our convoy and our bark.
Exeunt all the Commoners
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't I
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
My love with words and errors still she feeds;
There were no suns to borrow of.
Menenius, you are known well enough too.
Mangles true judgment and bereaves the state
To CLEOPATRA
As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
For Mariana's sake: but as he adjudged your brother,--
O me! it is my mother. How now, good lady!
They all shout and wave their swords, take him up in their arms, and cast up their caps
See, how the ugly wench doth bend her brows,
My life upon her faith! Honest Iago,
would yield us but the superfluity, while it were
But to the rest.
This tongue had not offended so to-day,
Prithee, no more: let him come when he will;
Charles and the rest will take thee in their arms.
Re-enter Attendant
I prophesied, if a gallows were on land,
Nor I your mother?
On him, her brother, me, her master, hitting
matter of heavy consequence; I have kept of them
of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
You mistook, sir; I say, she did nod: and you ask
Which are as easy broke as they make forms.
The most remark'd i' the kingdom. As for Cromwell,
Now outlaw'd from my blood; he sought my life,
A second Hector, for his grim aspect,
Exit Servant
Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother,
France spreads his banners in our noiseless land;
Boding to all--he had my handkerchief.
And hardly shall I carry out my side,
By a name
now I let go your hand, I am barren.
As poisonous of your honour: no; our suit
He's safe for these three hours.
Saw I men scour so on their way: I eyed them
I will give thee for it a thousand pound: ask me
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays;
Rain'd from the wounds of slaughter'd Englishmen:
Let Paris bleed; 'tis but a scar to scorn;
Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out,
His mansion and his titles in a place
What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeased
bondman? If any, speak; for him have I offended.
Re-enter DOLABELLA
Light seeking light doth light of light beguile:
Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
A pretty plot, well chosen to build upon!
More goddess-like than wife-like, such assaults
And God forbid, my dear and faithful lord,
Look round about the wicked streets of Rome;
O, grief hath changed me since you saw me last,
What is your name?
The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
So I have. Farewell
I will upon all hazards well believe
Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Officed with me: we two will walk, my lord,
I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke.
Ay, good youth!
And thou shouldst tow me after: o'er my spirit
Her uncle Rivers; yea, and, for her sake,
O gentle Proteus, Love's a mighty lord,
Who's there? whose noise is this that ones on murder?
These terms of treason doubled down his throat.
And worms will not come to thee.
Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe;
What! can so young a thorn begin to prick?
Singing
Upon a lazy bed the livelong day
and send her home again without a husband.
Is he ready
You were best to call them generally, man by man,
From my great purpose in to-morrow's battle.
SCENE VII. Gloucester's castle.
There is no leprosy but what thou speak'st.
Enter Banditti
Would with his daughter speak, commands her service:
thy fury! Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? He
I sought the purchase of a glorious beauty.
Money by me! heart and goodwill you might;
And from the organ-pipe of frailty sings
To lend me arms and aid when I required them;
Your answer, sir, is enigmatical:
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
You are unkind, Demetrius; be not so;
by the salt rheum that ran between France and it.
That would be son to great Antiochus.
Come to our pavilion: Boyet is disposed.
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes,
The model of our chaste loves, his young daughter;
The Volsces dare break with us.
for our rehearsal. This green plot shall be our
of man's disposition is able to bear.
Re-enter LEONATO and ANTONIO, with the Sexton
All that glitters is not gold;
wife: I spy entertainment in her; she discourses,
And dare not take up arms like gentlemen.
Great thing of us forgot!
Be the attorney of my love to her:
And I have read that Hecuba of Troy
Of raging waste? It cannot hold; it will not.
Fare thee well. Thou art a piece of virtue, and
He is a craven and a villain else, an't please your
Come, make him stand upon this molehill here,
Of Coeur-de-lion knighted in the field.
Upon the dancing banners of the French,
If any friend will pay the sum for him,
the passado he respects not, the duello he regards
I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful:
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
Where the warlike Smalus,
As howling after music.
Did he break out into tears?
Into the gallery.
Our Roman rites: Alarbus' limbs are lopp'd,
Sing, boy; my spirit grows heavy in love.
to see the wrestling?
thou seest her before me, commend me.
The greatness of his person.
Ere we depart, we'll share a bounteous time
by the flesh; and he must needs go that the devil drives.
His bloody sword he brandish'd over me,
Doth make a stand at what your highness will.
into London under the form of a soldier. And such
Into baboon and monkey.
First, a very excellent good-conceited thing;
The faith they have in tennis, and tall stockings,
If over-boldly we have borne ourselves
Exeunt FERDINAND, Lords, and Blackamoors
Ay, Timon, and have cause.
If worthier friends had not prevented me.
Now, by my maidenhead, at twelve year old,
No, no, the bell: 'tis time that I were gone:
Stand up, lord.
SCENE V. The Grecian camp. Lists set out.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Cardinal, I am with you.
letter! Abhorred villain! Unnatural, detested,
Now, afore God--God forbid I say true!--
Why, thou picture of what thou seemest, and idol
all's done.
We are the queen's abjects, and must obey.
Villains, you did not so, when your vile daggers
Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes,
Trip, Audrey! trip, Audrey! I attend, I attend.
Why muse you, sir? 'tis dinner-time.
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
Second Serving-man	And so will I.
Let him receive no sustenance, fetter him
To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out
You fools! I and my fellows
You go so much backward when you fight.
Sir, praise me not;
You stand upon the ravage and behold
Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke
But not a thousand marks between you both.
You have abused me:
We have here one, sir, if she would--but there never
O excellent devise! make a sop of him.
SCENE I. Windsor. Before PAGE's house.
at your command; I will run.
Do not run away.
In that good path that I would wish it go,
Love-news, in faith.
Exeunt Salarino and Salanio
called Mile-end, to instruct for the doubling of
Stay, you that bear the corse, and set it down.
succession for it perpetually.
loves not the common people.
What art thou there? speak.
The infant of your care; beseeching you
You told how Diomed, a whole week by days,
Who should express her goodliest. You have seen
We shall be call'd purgers, not murderers.
Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried:
Be sure of that,--two other husbands.
We'll answer it;
You'll win two days upon me.
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
That when the sea was calm all boats alike
Do you know this Captain Dumain?
Caius Marcius.
And for this cause awhile we must neglect
It would amaze the proudest of you all.
Bid Nestor bring me spices, ink and paper,
She is a most sweet lady.
Let him that loves me strike me dead.
Was there ever man had such luck! when I kissed the
Who, being suffer'd with the bear's fell paw,
Who, Troilus? Troilus is the better man of the two.
Save this of hers, framed by thy villany!
Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least;
While she was in her dull and sleeping hour,
Conceal me what I am, and be my aid
'Through, in pure truth, it was corrupt and naught,
That owes two buckets, filling one another,
To any well-deserving friend;
The element itself, till seven years' heat,
Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart,
Upon what cause, wrong you? alas, our places,
files: I would do the man what honour I can, but of
All hail, great master! grave sir, hail! I come
Could be so rarely and exactly wrought,
What fellow's this?
He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.
Ay, forsooth; I'll fetch it you.
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
I know thou canst; and therefore see thou do it.
Exeunt
O,--Desdemona,--
But here I am to speak what I do know.
Enter the Soothsayer
Farewell, kind Charmian; Iras, long farewell.
Is to avoid the aim. Therefore, to horse;
Hear you the news abroad?
Real necessities, and give way the while
As rushing out of doors, to be resolved
But think upon my grief, a lady's grief,
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
Why, then, it is like, if there come a hot June and
remuneration I had of thy master, thou halfpenny
'Tis he the common people love so much;
Without corrival, all her dignities:
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
with scorn, write to him that I love him?'
nor into a pepper-box: but, lest the devil that
The corn o' the storehouse gratis, as 'twas used
O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow
The Moor's abused by some most villanous knave,
Exeunt all but EDGAR
Such war of white and red within her cheeks!
a Christian is? If you prick us, do we not bleed?
ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to
Touches his friend, which craves to be remember'd
This is my fault: as for the rest appeall'd,
Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun.
I was going, sir,
I will trust you. Walk before toward the sea-side;
Tantaene animis coelestibus irae?
with them:'
And bless us with her former qualities.
Do so, King Philip; hang no more in doubt.
will I frame and make fit for his attempt. If you
This is Signior Antonio.
Must I rob the law?
The horned herd! for I have savage cause;
Go on, go on
We will have, if this fadge not, an antique. I
Exit
Dost thou call me fool, boy?
And coughing drowns the parson's saw
If all could so become it.
And with her plague; her sin his injury,
followers, whose condemnation is pronounced. So far
He not respects at all. What, ho, Pisanio!
I have no superfluous leisure; my stay must be
The daring'st counsel which I had to doubt;
Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?
He hath not money for these Irish wars,
Swear thou art honest.
'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune:'
Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes
And then begin again, and stop again,
Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know
Have with my knife carved in Roman letters,
How he's employ'd: he shall in time be ready.
Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt
Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all.
speak not this that you should bear a good opinion
If what in rest you have in right you hold,
Gloucester, York, Buckingham, Somerset,
Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'st
'Twas men I lack'd and you will give them me:
But Macbeth is.
Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
When with your blood you daily paint her thus.
O love, dispatch all business, and be gone!
I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her.
'Tis nothing but some bond, that he is enter'd into
ill-qualities.
Why, this is the world's soul; and just of the
thou silly gentleman!
That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.
And then he falls, as I do. I have ventured,
Exist, and be a member of his love
Hark, boy! what noise is that?
Exit
Who ever yet could sound thy bottom? find
He may show what outward courage he will; but I
King Lewis his satisfaction, all appear
Very well met, and well come.
Besides--I ha' not since put up my sword--
I with great truth catch mere simplicity;
Than when you left him; even now he sung.
Unknown to the beginning.
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none
Some horrible conceit: if thou dost love me,
Was call'd Belarius.
Ordained is to raise this tedious siege
For the which, with songs of woe,
And but for our approach those sleeping stones,
We are not, sir, nor are we like to be;
And will, no doubt, tempt him to any thing.
provoker of three things.
go hard with you.
All cruels else subscribed: but I shall see
Should conquer Antony; but woe 'tis so!
Of their dispatch.
Good my liege,
Sir, I most humbly pray you to deliver
Well, then, that's the humour of't.
In this last tempest. I perceive these lords
And did my brother Bedford toil his wits,
But that his wildness, mortified in him,
Re-enter CASSIO; with him MONTANO and Gentlemen; servants following with wine
When she had fitted you with her craft, to work
When thou art Timon's dog, and these knaves honest.
not my sword; but take my pistol, if thou wilt.
If he will take it, so; if not, adieu;
And on the gates of Lud's-town set your heads:
And in our coronation take your place.
Well, go, prepare yourself.
Alexander Iden, that's my name;
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
SCENE III. London. Before the Tower.
But that thou art so fast mine enemy.
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight,
Must kings neglect, that private men enjoy!
SCENE III. A room in the castle.
Unreal mockery, hence!
Madam, I had rather--
What say they?
He, in good time, must his lieutenant be,
Let Titan rise as early as he dare,
As fool and fight is, beside forfeiting
In every thing I wait upon his will.
To build his fortune I will strain a little,
O, like a book of sport thou'lt read me o'er;
Ay, Lepidus.
Will so your accusation overweigh,
And see the ambush of our friends be strong;
Out of their best--is not almost a fault
I tell thee, man, 'tis better with me now
Is't possible?
Made me to blame in memory.
And with those hands, that grasp'd the heaviest club,
You, you, ay, you!
and our wives' heels.
Bring in the admiration; that we with thee
Indeed his king, to be engaged in Wales,
honest man: and touching the Duke of York, I will
In courtesy gives undeserving praise.
impossibility, and knowing I had no such purpose? I
The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
Alarum. Exeunt
and give out
Or any of my brothers of the state,
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
Doth rise and fall between thy rosed lips,
What revels are in hand? Is there no play,
Varro's
Who were the motives that you first went out;
The queen being absent, 'tis a needful fitness
It may well be called Jove's tree, when it drops
Make yourself mirth with your particular fancy,
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
God and our good cause fight upon our side;
Both of his truth and him, which was too far,
The world's great snare uncaught?
Let us make the assay upon him: if he care not
To Bristol castle, which they say is held
have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings
The gods are witness,
Enter PAROLLES
Good God! why should they mock poor fellows thus?
Why then should I be consul? By yond clouds,
What, thyself?
Which bewept to the grave did go
By any indirection: I did send
Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surprised?
Why should I war without the walls of Troy,
The stamp of nobleness in any person
Of all our purposes. What say you to it?
I cannot help it now,
One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons,
humour on me; that is the very note of it.
Sweet lord, and why?
Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
Give me the letter, sir.
weight to re-answer, his pettiness would bow under.
As it disanimates his enemies.
Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear,
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
I am undone! The knight is here.
For, being green, there is great hope of help.
Through whom a thousand sighs are breathed for thee!
Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold;
Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou: I would my
And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease.
SCENE II. Troy. A room in Priam's palace.
Or I am much deceived, of Portia.
Not what he knew I was: he makes me angry;
sad; and to travel for it too!
Fie, for shame!
Whose club kill'd Cerberus, that three-headed canis;
That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears,
Spoke, with how manifold and strong a bond
Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised.
'The thrice three Muses mourning for the death
Will bless it and approve it with a text,
Good morrow, good wife.
Claudio must die to-morrow: let him be furnished
Nor did the French possess the Salique land
have them, they are not worth the search.
Whose disposition, all the world well knows,
I am a very foolish fond old man,
Now, where's my wife?
Pell-mell, down with them! but be first advised,
That had nine hours lien dead,
'Tis thou and those that have dishonour'd me.
Nor I; I would not there reside,
And, for this night, we'll fast for company:
Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You, tribunes
Ready.
am no honest man if there be any good meaning
I, now the voice of the recorded law,
Loseth men's hearts and leaves behind a stain
to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
Profaning this most honourable order,
Ay, to such mercy as his ruthless arm,
carries his house on his head; a better jointure,
If you be king, why should not I succeed?
De elbow. Je m'en fais la repetition de tous les
Or should have spoke ere this. Look down, you god,
Himself: what say'st thou to him?
That thou hast practised on her with foul charms,
And buy men's voices to commend our deeds:
Exeunt
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
And I will kiss thy detestable bones
Than hate for Silvia that is gone for love.
Sound but another, and another shall
Why, Valentine, what braggardism is this?
By smiling pick-thanks and base news-mongers,
She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
Well; keep good quarter and good care to-night:
Says it will come to the full. Mark Antony
The gods protect you!
you have reason, be brief: 'tis not that time of
I take my leave at once.
Who are the late commissioners?
I praise God for you.
Enter a Beadle with whips
This maid will serve my turn, sir.
Exit an Attendant
May't please your lordship, 'tis a word or two
Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
commander;
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
Of all say'd yet, I wish thee happiness!
say he lies?
There was a fourth man, in a silly habit,
not beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the
With cheques as flatteries,--when they are seen abused.
There, take it, prince; and if my form lie there,
Craved audience; and the hour, I think, is come
Love make your fortunes twenty times above
Whom, like a school-boy, you may over-awe.
Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers--
some little measure draw a belief from you, to do
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
If you dare venture in your own behalf,
from Don Armado: I beseech you, read it.
But, hark, what noise?
Signior Antonio, many a time and oft
And last eat up himself. Great Agamemnon,
Accommodated by the place, more charming
my cousin Toby? Let some of my people have a special
We like not this; thou dost forget thyself.
Your honour and your goodness is so evident
Exit
Erroneous vassal! the great King of kings
Enter LAUNCELOT, with a letter
Will call discreet proceeding.
'Zounds, ye whore! is black so base a hue?
And here's another
Exit MARIA
As did the youthful Paris once to Greece,
wretched corse, of wretched soul bereft:
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
To ANGELO
A distance from her; while her grace sat down
As if I were their well-acquainted friend;
Here sheathe thy sword, I'll pardon thee my death:
In peril of precipitation
And to become the geck and scorn
More than a lodged hate and a certain loathing
A soldier and his horse.
Thou shouldst have been, and shielded him
His youngest son; and would not change that calling,
I love her ten times more than e'er I did:
And down goes all before them. Still be kind,
Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart:
Foolery, sir, does walk about the orb like the sun,
That won three fields of Sultan Solyman,
ransacked, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall not
Thou little know'st how thou dost startle me,
Where souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand,
The ne'er touch'd vestal: try thy cunning, Thyreus;
having any occasion to write for matter of grant,
And sleep in spite of thunder.
this a place to roar in? Fetch me a dozen crab-tree
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Worthy enough a herdsman: yea, him too,
If you affect him, sister, here I swear
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
He might have bought me at a common price:
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail
To stubborn harshness: and, my gracious duke,
To France, to France, and get what you have lost;
I hope I have your good will, father Page.
What answer, sir? when spake I such a word?
in that surge, like a horse-shoe; think of
justices of peace, to call poor men before them
Of all the faults beneath the heavens, the gods
Of this so noble and so fair assembly
Which doth amount to three odd ducats more
And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury,
Nor shall it, Harry; for the hour is come
With all my heart, my liege.
What, dost thou weep? Come nearer. Then I
She is,
Do deeds worth praise and tell you them at night.
a score of villains: if there sit twelve women at
Why are you grown so rude? what change is this?
As hath been belch'd on by infected lungs.
Christian.
The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
Embrace him, dear Thaisa; this is he.
He never did fall off, my sovereign liege,
O, welcome, Oxford! for we want thy help.
I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss'd;
Exit, guarded
And I serve the fairy queen,
O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!
for this uncivil rule: she shall know of it, by this hand.
Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest,
Ay, that I am not thee.
I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news:
Which must approve thee honest: 'If Pisanio
Now, quiet soul, depart when heaven please,
How many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants
What do I fear?  myself?  there's none else by:
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
Primo, secundo, tertio, is a good play; and the old
My lord: he doth entreat your grace;
Though I die for it, as no less is threatened me,
Will you with free and unconstrained soul
How?
Which by no means we may extenuate--
have banged the youth into dumbness. This was
To scatter 'em, as 'tis to make 'em sleep
I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The
Apollo would, this being indeed the issue
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards;
Because you want the grace that others have,
And all to all.
It is a purposed thing, and grows by plot,
Perchance he will not mind me.
To bar heaven's shaft, but sin had his reward.
Not a flower, not a flower sweet
They know that do accuse me; I know none:
I have disclaim'd sir Robert and my land;
To wilful disobedience, and rebel!
Know what they would.
But as successively from blood to blood,
That I have, lady: if it will please Caesar
that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
No less in pity than his glory which
nights: your cousin, my lady, takes great
And see a fearful sight of blood and death.
Exit HORATIO
And keep me on the side where still I am.
When men revolted shall upon record
The one is filling still, never complete;
In Syracusa was I born, and wed
wars or no?
You shake, my lord, at something: will you go?
I'll be so bold to break the seal for once.
Here on this molehill will I sit me down.
How pomp is follow'd! mine will now be yours;
Dismiss them home.
Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night
To keep them back that come to succor you:
I tell you this: Caesar through Syria
The French king's daughter with yourself to speak--
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance
I have not long to trouble thee. Good Griffith,
But if it were, doubt not her care should be
Which the most precious square of sense possesses;
That frights the maidens of the villagery;
We love our people well; even those we love
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
Re-enter ARVIRAGUS, with IMOGEN, as dead, bearing her in his arms
And out of heart, master: all those three I will prove.
Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven,
Enter a Messenger
a lady; I have been politic with my friend, smooth
And how he cannot be a perfect man,
by boy, servant by servant: the tithe of a hair
I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be
If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so,
I'll not be by the while: my liege, farewell:
Iago, look with care about the town,
I know not, madam: 'tis a fair young man, and well attended.
Monster, your fairy, which you say is
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
If heaven would make me such another world
I cannot rightly say. But since King Pericles,
You bees that make these locks of counsel! Lovers
To grant one boom that I shall ask of you.
Abhorr'd your person.
Besides two thousand ducats by the year
But unto thee, Alencon, and the rest;
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms,
Well, the gods give us joy!
Methought it was very sweet,
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
That it shall hold companionship in peace
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
These that survive let Rome reward with love;
I speak no treason.
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
So much I challenge that I may profess
Why, that to know, which else we should not know.
I am most joyful, madam, such good dreams
Madam, my mother, I do cry you mercy;
Did this break-from her: 'Good Antigonus,
She shall not long continue love to him.
He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
Your brother he shall go along with me.
eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio
You sunburnt sicklemen, of August weary,
Alarums. Enter MACBETH
Ah, Silvia, Silvia!
Not any, but abide the change of time,
There comes with them a forerunner, my lord, which
Needs must you lay your heart at his dispose,
That shouldst repair my youth, thou heap'st
Amazement shall drive courage from the state;
It is a man's office, but not yours.
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,
Be not afraid: I met her deity
Then have I substance too.
To re-survey them, we will suddenly
Good sir, be a man;
Rome more. Had you rather Caesar were living and
is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
Enter the KING HENRY VIII and DOCTOR BUTTS at a window above
lady? he's fortified against any denial.
My sight is very dull, whate'er it bodes.
I bring consuming sorrow to thine age.
Feast-won, fast-lost; one cloud of winter showers,
Music plays
Flourish. Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, her Ladies, the Train, with Eunuchs fanning her
Yea, and perhaps with more successful words
pretty jest your daughter told us of.
By heaven, I had rather coin my heart,
That sings heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue.
The service of the foot
Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues:
His fortunes all lie speechless and his name
And prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
The one is Caius Lucius.
Will it give place to flexure and low bending?
'Tis very like: he hath the failing sickness.
Glad am I that your highness is so arm'd
is the moral of it, that she is turning, and
Remuneration for the thing it was;
Do not, porpentine, do not: my fingers itch.
But leave their flocks; and, under your fair conduct,
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
It was some fiend; therefore, thou happy father,
Very good.
Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent
I hope, in no place so unsanctified
Cobweb.
Still so constant, lord.
The wolves have prey'd; and look, the gentle day,
As man and wife, being two, are one in love,
I am thy friend, and pity thee, dear Timon.
By his loved mansionry, that the heaven's breath
But that to your sufficiency as your Worth is able,
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
Most thankfully, my lord.
For Edward will defend the town and thee,
Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious queen,
Your lady
For half a hundred years. Summon the town.
Why, does he talk of him?
Appointed to direct these fair designs.
The morning's danger, and their gesture sad
Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
The exhalations whizzing in the air
This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus,
Would he were here, my lord! for he indeed
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham.
Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves:
But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me,
I have heard the Frenchman hath good skill in
The instruments that feel.
To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
For Valentine myself, for Julia Silvia.
Throttle their practised accent in their fears
protest, mine never shall. I warrant he hath a
we are come off
The most replenish'd villain in the world,
She is our capital demand, comprised
O, that your lordship were but now confessor
In christening shalt thou have two god-fathers:
With my request, which I make bold your highness
O Tamora! was ever heard the like?
Nay, temperately; your promise.
Within this bosom never enter'd yet
Nay, more, the king's council are no good workmen.
By the heart's still rhetoric disclosed with eyes,
Now are frolic: not a mouse
if this be not a lawful case for me to leave his
His flight was madness: when our actions do not,
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,
Ay, on the front.
that you should leave me at the White Hart in
Do what you will, dishonour shall be humour.
Come, sir, I will not let you go. Come, my young
That without desert have frown'd on me;
Had graced the tender temples of my child,
Ay, but I know--
They are inclined to do so.
Why, then All-Souls' day is my body's doomsday.
Nor much oppress'd them with great subsidies.
ears a fork'd one!
As when the golden sun salutes the morn,
censure of the which one must in your allowance
Exeunt, severally
Your high profession spiritual: that again
But, will the king
Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors.
My daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness,
Come then, and take the last warmth of my lips.
if he could burn us all into one coal,
Strike; down with them; cut the villains' throats:
This, my last boon, give me,
On, good Camillo.
Have you forgot all sense of place and duty?
Let him be the devil, an he will, I care not: give
We owe thee much! within this wall of flesh
To fetch me trifles, and return again,
France is a bawd to Fortune and King John,
but I am not to say it is a sea, for it is now the
Then is Caesar and he for ever knit together.
And hold you ever to our special drift;
Resembling majesty, which, being touch'd and tried,
The pale companion is not for our pomp.
paid to Master Brook; his horses are arrested for
Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest,
What hath this day deserved? what hath it done,
Within the limit of becoming mirth,
James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
You do yet taste
And then your highness shall command a peace.
And, spite of all the rapture of the sea,
Where ill men were; and was the best of all
Than the sea-monster!
O'erhang and jutty his confounded base,
The seat of Gaunt, dukedom of Lancaster:
very low, my bond to the Jew is forfeit; and since
To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.
yet I determine to fight lustily for him.
That they have overborne their continents:
[Waking]  Sleep, thou hast been a grandsire, and begot
Thanks, my good lord chamberlain.
cure of it not only saves your brother, but keeps
And many a man there is, even at this present,
Saint Davy's day is past.
What's her price, Boult?
Exit
From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there!
And, by the near guess of my memory,
Here is Lord Angelo shall give you justice:
And start so often when thou sit'st alone?
Which my dead father did bequeath to me.
Hot questrists after him, met him at gate;
No, sir; but it is vara fine,
To prove myself a loyal gentleman
Exeunt
[To COSTARD]  Ah, you whoreson loggerhead! you were
But, if you frown upon this proffer'd peace,
As good as promise.
Hear me without thine ears, and make reply
apparel and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
curiosity; in thy rags thou knowest none, but art
Grew by our feeding to so great a bulk
Come, brother, let us to the highest of the field,
Another of these students at that time
That we will prosecute by good advice
The source of this our watch and the chief head
Enter GRATIANO
And burst of speaking, were as his: I am absolute
drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a
There art thou happy: Tybalt would kill thee,
melted, if you give him not John Drum's
The wise and fool, the artist and unread,
When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept:
So children temporal fathers do appease;
Put in their hands thy bruising irons of wrath,
My father made in compassing the crown!
more tricks with Falstaff: his dissolute disease will
well proved again o' my side! I will not love: if
But, as in health, come to my natural taste,
That she is issue to a faithless Jew.
Beneath is all the fiends';
Out upon you! what a man are you!
My best endeavours shall be done herein.
BISHOP
A friendly eye could never see such faults.
Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock,
With nothing shall be pleased, till he be eased
it was excess of wine that set him on;
And art almost an alien to the hearts
as braggarts do their blades, which God be thanked,
Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.
If you accept them, then their worth is great.
And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
For you love Hermia; this you know I know:
Where America, the Indies?
of a world ransomed, or one destroyed: a notable
was guilty of.
Be there in person?
Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes
Delighted them in any other form;
Put in her tender heart the aspiring flame
By this light, he changes more and more: I think
What damned error, but some sober brow
Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides:
I'll tell thee, ere thou ask it me again.
I thank my memory, I yet remember
His body for a girl that loves him not:
as my word; but speciously for Master Fenton. Well,
To-night we'll wander through the streets and note
All will be well.
Boldness comes to me now, and brings me heart.
It is even so.
A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but
With lusty sinews, throwing it aside
Welcome, my lord: I marvel our mild husband
Peace then! no words.
For my peculiar care. This one thing only
Were still at odds, being but three.
With some sweet concert; to their instruments
And yet not ours. Come, let me taste my horse,
ANTIPHOLUS
Good majesty,
You rather mine, being yours: and so, great powers,
Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!
I tender to thy hand: all thy vexations
And now I must be as unjust to Thurio.
How! gone!
Music ceases
And yet you never swum the Hellespont.
My lord, I pray you, hear me.
Upon our fields.
than little wit from them that they have! which
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
To think I shall lack friends? Secure thy heart;
respect and acquaintance, but I find none.
were more than they can commend.
To make bad good, and good provoke to harm.
Bless this unworthy husband? he cannot thrive,
have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the
very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue is
And even here brake off, and came away.
She'll gallop far enough to her destruction.
Then put up your pipes in your bag, for I'll away:
Enter CRANMER
Enter MARCIUS
for God's sake: pray you, examine him upon that point.
Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it.
O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye
The lethargy must have his quiet course:
But what says Jupiter, I ask thee?
On those that are, revenges: crimes, like lands,
Corrupted honest men! Dispatch.--Enobarbus!
He striketh him
Ay, with my heart
I shall obey his will.
Love you my son?
A sword, whose temper I intend to stain
nothing, nuncle?
And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
Why, hark ye, hark ye! and are you such fools
I never loved you much; but I ha' praised ye,
Even at the heels in golden multitudes.
No, nor you shall not.
Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:
Come, poor babe:
That's like my brother's fault: if it confess
As himself pleased; and they were ratified
Never was such a sudden scholar made;
And they are often tarred over with the surgery of
And all the peers', for surety of our leagues.
With many hundreds treading on his heels;
And in his ear I'll holla 'Mortimer!'
The horse were merely lost; the mares would bear
Like fragments in hard voyages, became
Madam.
A piece of painting, which I do beseech
Proceed.
My boon I make it, that you know me not
not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
Caesar hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest
Enter a Soldier, running
pupil age of this present twelve o'clock at midnight.
Where honeysuckles, ripen'd by the sun,
Prosper it with thee! Go thou farther off;
And, sure, those men are happy that shall have 'em.
Go back, I warrant thee; but I'll catch thine eyes,
He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it
Have I, Malvolio? no.
Philarmonus!
I have congied with the duke, done my adieu with his
Set from our o'ermatch'd forces forth for aid.
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew.
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
me see, let me see, let me see.
Would not infect his reason?
I prithee, but repair to me next morning.
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hear
But with such words that are but rooted in
Keeps still in Dunsinane, and will endure
Tell us what Sinon hath bewitch'd our ears,
How! have they denied him?
him.
with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew where a
Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
So you, to study now it is too late,
Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
Madam, be still; with reverence may I say;
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
In what enormity is Marcius poor in, that you two
The state takes notice of the private difference
Speed then, to take advantage of the field.
A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
these princely suitors that are already come?
trumpet's sound; we shall to 't presently.
To the rest, and 'mongst lords I be thought a fool.
You are welcome: take your place.
Where be your powers? show now your mended faiths,
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and Sexton, in gowns; and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
Two days ago. This jealousy
But winter and rough weather.
SCENE II. Windsor Park.
A villain.
the bastard is fled from Messina: you have among
Straight after did I meet him with a chain.
I say they shall not come.
Best sing it to the tune of 'Light o' love.'
Whose daughter, as we hear, the Earl of March
Than youthful April shall with all his showers:
Here shall I die ashore--
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Of double-fatal yew against thy state;
Or I am mad, or else this is a dream:
Genitive,--horum, harum, horum.
Within the scorched veins of one new-burn'd.
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
That made you break this enterprise to me?
by a divine thrusting on: an admirable evasion
Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe;
As if he had been loosed out of hell
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
As if he did contemn what he requested
Your vile intent must needs seem horrible.
Lucentio's father is arrived in Padua,
But they are cruel tears: this sorrow's heavenly;
troth, we that have good wits have much to answer
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
She is going, wench: pray, pray.
Our Britain seems as of it, but not in 't;
To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
KING CLAUDIUS puts LAERTES' hand into HAMLET's
Enter Boy
Is this the man you speak of?
But if to that my nature need a spur,
As full as thy report?
By whom this great assembly is contrived,
All his revenue.
Look, here is writ 'kind Julia.' Unkind Julia!
Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
Before he should thus stoop to the herd, but that
At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night,
Yet with my nobler reason 'gaitist my fury
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees!
faults hid!
My father hath a power; inquire of him
The sight of any of the house of York
And so good morrow to you every one.
Troilus will stand to the proof, if you'll
In pious rage the two delinquents tear,
Here's to thy health.
The father, all whose joy is nothing else
Thou, now a-dying, say'st thou flatterest me.
Re-enter HUBERT
Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.
Till thou dost hear me call.
And grant it.
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl,
The sweetness of affiance! Show men dutiful?
And make a battery through his deafen'd parts,
daughter for a monkey.
Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
And take her hearing prisoner with the force
Enter a Messenger
It is Posthumus' hand; I know't. Sirrah, if thou
O, it is monstrous, monstrous:
In your supposing once more put your sight
But there is no such man: for, brother, men
You gods, look down
Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
Hearing us praise our loves of Italy
Well, heaven knows how I love you; and you shall one
Will knit and break religions, bless the accursed,
Should learn, being taught, forbearance.
And all the unlook'd for issue of their bodies,
To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
And, princes French, and peers, health to you all!
[Aside to BOYET]  He may not by the yard.
And reason coldly of your grievances,
I am not worth this coil that's made for me.
My Antony is away.
King did I call thee? no, thou art not king,
Edward for Edward pays a dying debt.
Enter CADE
La you now, you hear:
Amity too, of your brave father, whom,
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Marry, that am I and my partner.
surely! O that I were a man for his sake! or that I
Preoccupied with what you rather must do
We will die all three:
And make a common of my serious hours.
Had you been as wise as bold,
Exit PISANIO
Why, as it were unlicensed of your loves,
And, mutually participate, did minister
Together with that pale, that white-faced shore,
nuptial. So much was his pleasure should be
recovered the king, and undone me. I have wedded
No, I'll be sworn; I make as good use of it as many
pate of father Time himself.
For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
Have broken with the king; who hath so far
Thou dost, and think'st it much to tread the ooze
Prithee, let's walk. Now, by my holidame.
Fly to the court of England and unfold
You would have married her most shamefully,
I am for you again: pray you, sit by us,
Enter GOWER and WILLIAMS
But I had rather fast from all four days
And I nothing to back my suit at all,
That their events can never fall out good.
are full of deceits?
You had much ado to make his anchor hold:
We will turn it finely off, sir; we will take
The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thou
Old Helicanus goes along behind.
'Faith, by no means; she has so strictly tied
O Cromwell,
And reason too:
It may not be.
Why dost thou laugh? it fits not with this hour.
I will in Cassio's lodging lose this napkin,
Draw them to Tiber banks, and weep your tears
Upon the king! let us our lives, our souls,
And know not now what name to call myself!
He is coming.
I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die.
Without some image of the affected merit.
fry of fornication is at door! On my Christian
How will my mother for a father's death
Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach;
The precious note of it with a base slave.
His vacancy with his voluptuousness,
Take that for your fair lady.
Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
From whence thou camest, how tended on: but rest
I warrant it is: and thy head stands so tickle on
He shall be lord of lady Imogen,
Exit
To stale with ordinary oaths my love
Enter VALENTINE and VIOLA in man's attire
The king of heaven forbid our lord the king
Witness our too much memorable shame
With hostile forces he'll o'erspread the land,
Yea, subject to your countenance, glad or sorry
So is it in the music of men's lives.
Seeming to bear it lightly. Take me up:
O my friends,
worth another word, else I'ld call you knave. I leave you.
then you will play bare-faced. But, masters, here
Reads
Love can transpose to form and dignity:
'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he,
O braggart vile and damned furious wight!
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
Why, then your uncle and the prince and Claudio
Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
To come alone, either he so undertaking,
Environed with all these hideous fears?
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
And part the numbers.
The Emperor of Russia was my father:
No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins.
I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show;
That shall enmesh them all.
For 'tis a bond in men. Give him thy daughter:
And all Europa shall rejoice at thee,
[Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
that's all one. 'By the Lord, fool, I am not mad.'
Between you 'greed concerning her observance?
Lay it by too: another.
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
Why will you kill me?
Who do prepare to meet him at the gates,
Thus, then, in few.
Exit, with PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum within
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
I never spake with her in all my life.
Thy brother was a furtherer in the act.
head, nor no money in your purse? Your eyes are in
And not from one opposed.
Will't not off?
Right son to the right Vincentio;
man so rayed? was ever man so weary? I am sent
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Hector will challenge him.
Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake,
So full of dismal terror was the time!
He was in the right; and so indeed it is.
word for two pence that you are no fool.
No, I warrant you; for a fools will shame it.
And do not stand on quillets how to slay him:
Obey, audacious traitor; kneel for grace.
He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is
thought, I dare vow for her, they touched not any
O, let me think on Hastings, and be gone
Pray, walk softly, do not heat your blood:
you tarry here. By gar, I will cut all his two
This calf bred from his cow from all the world;
With gentle travail, to the gladding of
And how mightily some other times we drown our gain
Values itself so highly that to her
Base, fearful and despairing Henry!
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
To PISANIO
In way of marriage: therefore be advised.
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
and then, you know,
O perjured woman! They are both forsworn:
Dead.
ACT II
With variable objects shall expel
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
And let him sign it: we'll away to-night
Which better fits a lion than a man.
In the south suburbs, at the Elephant,
Miss that which one unworthier may attain,
That judgment cannot cure. Which thing to do,
[Aside]  I'll blast his harvest, if your head were laid;
happiness, glad of other men's good, content with my
I will say of it,
To give it her. I did so: and take heed on't;
I will not.
His foot Mercurial; his Martial thigh;
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
fortune; honour for his valour; and death for his
Safer than trust too far:
This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's. Go,
I'll play the penitent to you: but mine honesty
Before the eyes of both our armies here,
'Tis very true.
But love, dear love, and our aged father's right:
That she may make, unmake, do what she list,
Sir, there's a barge put off from Mytilene,
Still revelling like lords till all be gone;
Have I to-night fluster'd with flowing cups,
Magni Dominator poli,
your blows.
Patience, good sir.
Launce, away, away, aboard! thy master is shipped
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
For to a vision so apparent rumour
Sir Valentine, whither away so fast?
Never sees horrid night, the child of hell,
I would not--though 'tis my familiar sin
And in that hope I throw mine eyes to heaven,
As chaste as unsunn'd snow. O, all the devils!
The worthy knight of Troy.
Sweet Hero! now thy image doth appear
glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Exit a Servant
I will determine this before I stir.
Thy cruelty in execution
March'd through the city to the palace gates.
In honour of a true Plantagenet
the thanksgiving before meat, do relish the petition
I do protest, I never injured thee,
And by that music let us all embrace;
They are worn, lord consul, so,
Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
Exeunt BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and attendants
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
king! in you it best lies; otherwise a seducer
ask you what it means, say you this:
The eldest son of this distressed queen.
Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald
First he did praise my beauty, then my speech.
sure will hang upon my tongue like a new-married
Would sing her song and dance her turn; now here,
But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
I have but with a cursorary eye
Why, I have not another tear to shed:
Except like curs to tear us all to pieces.
For it is after midnight; and ere day
Ransoming him, or pitying, threatening the other;
Which I'll not call a creature of thy place,
So far ask pardon as befits mine honour
Did you hear of a stranger that's come to court to-night?
Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.
Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven.
With strong and mighty preparation.
For fear I surfeit.
and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden
Exeunt all but ULYSSES and NESTOR
universal world, or in France, or in England!
O my most gracious lord,
O, no, you shall not go.
Your breach of promise to the Porpentine.
Farewell, mad wenches; you have simple wits.
Together with the pitiful complaints
That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce,
Drew on me here again.
bastards,--as, I think, I have brought up some eleven--
O, me alone! make you a sword of me?
[Reads]
her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
You bred him as my playfellow, and he is
This fair alliance quickly shall call home
And give him light that it was blinded by.
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp
Enter the PRINCE OF WALES and FALSTAFF
You make me marvel: wherefore ere this time
You must return and mend it.
To wear away this long age of three hours
Something from Cyprus as I may divine:
Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Then gather strength and march unto him straight:
Lay hold upon him: if he do resist,
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
ambitious, his gait majestical, and his general
A subtle knave! but yet it shall not serve.
This prince, the fair-betrothed of your daughter,
Well, madam, and in health.
Hang the trifle, woman! take the honour. What is
Whip to our tents, as roes run o'er land.
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
[Reading out of a scroll]
It was his word: O, he would miss it rather
Heir to the crown?
They cut thy sister's tongue and ravish'd her
Ah, dear, if I be so,
Can hold the mortise? What shall we hear of this?
Cannot be ill, cannot be good: if ill,
To melt in showers: thy grandsire loved thee well:
And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts?
no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an
No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm,
here acquired for him shall at home be encountered
The taste whereof, God of his mercy give
Puts the wretch that lies in woe
Or that we quit this place; let's draw our weapons.
In the dark backward and abysm of time?
Your uncle Worcester's horse came but today;
For by my mother I derived am
true, that thou art beauteous; truth itself, that
Madam, if your heart be so obdurate,
Great tyranny! lay thou thy basis sure,
Gloucester and Buckingham.
How now, sir? what are you reasoning with yourself?
Madam, I will.
That smooth'st it so with king and commonweal!
Then put my tires and mantles on him, whilst
Enough is shown: a cypress, not a bosom,
Art thou there, Diomed? Draw thy sword, and give me
see but the issue of my jealousy: if I cry out thus
Beyond you, to your friends.
That I should fear to die? Therefore proceed.
The use of your own virtues, for the which
That never may ill office, or fell jealousy,
all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,
But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes
Such as he is, full of regard and honour.
He speaks by leave and by permission,
Blessed fig's-end! the wine she drinks is made of
What power is it which mounts my love so high,
Where I will write. All may be well enough.
By'r lady, thirty years.
There's no offence, my lord.
His body to that pleasant country's earth,
Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to
Pray you now, forget and forgive: I am old and foolish.
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
As well a woman with an eunuch play'd
'Thus didest thou.'
But who comes here?
Il me commande de vous dire que vous faites vous
To do what?
From one that so imperfectly conceits,
As much as he deserves! Pause there, Morocco,
Enter two Gentlemen, meeting
hundred-pound, filthy, worsted-stocking knave; a
the Park: I pray you, pardon me; I will hereafter
Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight
Any exploit worthy the name of honour.
Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries,
You speak a language that I understand not:
Ha, my brave emperor!
Where's Antony?
I do remember it; and here take my leave,
As true as steel, as plantage to the moon,
Re-enter BERTRAM
Call we to mind, and mark but this for proof,
Go muster men; but, hear you, leave behind
O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
Enter MARK ANTONY and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
So did our looks.
Now, by my sword, well hast thou fought to-day;
slip-shod.
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench;
Humbly to kiss your hand, and with my tongue
See, by good hap, yonder's my lord;
Are newly grown to love: the condemn'd Pompey,
One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath
And you sat smiling at his cruel pray.
You know an enemy intends you harm;
voice bode no mischief. I had as lief have heard the
To see the things thou dost not. Now, now, now, now:
I'll call him presently, my noble lord.
And 'Honi soit qui mal y pense' write
But that 'tis shown ignobly and in treason.
So should you be.
Is south the chamber, and the chimney-piece
When we grow stronger, then we'll make our claim:
Was he angry?
Poor drunkard!
In half an hour she promised to return.
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings,
From my master, Sir Proteus, madam.
He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar
And now, dear maid, be you as free to us.
To Edmund earl of Gloucester; seek him out
She did corrupt frail nature with some bribe,
Now, in thy likeness, one more fool appear!
The other found out there.
There is no music in the nightingale;
The son, compell'd, been butcher to the sire:
sir, you know not which way you shall go.
Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain.
What then?
And for that name which is no part of thee
God quit you in his mercy! Hear your sentence.
And, gentle master, I received no gold;
By help of her more potent ministers
How that the guilty kindred of the queen
To shine on my contemptible estate:
What, have you writ that letter to my sister?
Draws on apace; four happy days bring in
wept for the death of a third husband. But it is
More than three hours the fight continued;
I am betroth'd: and art thou not ashamed
The king my father, sir, has drunk to you.
Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice;
Can you inquire him out, and be edified by report?
Exeunt all but MENAS and ENOBARBUS
That thus can make him bite the law by the nose,
Is this the monument of Leonato?
[To GONERIL]  Detested kite! thou liest.
A mess of Russians left us but of late.
Neither, my lord.
And, if you love me, as I think you do,
Farewell, sweet madam: but hark you, Margaret;
Who, you all know, are honourable men:
And therefore bind them, gentle Publius.
It is, indeed: if you will have it in showing, you
And so supplant you for ingratitude,
Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a
Her father is no better than an earl,
A most unworthy and unnatural lord
I could not send it,--here it is again,--
Who made thee, then, a bloody minister,
Bell, book, and candle shall not drive me back,
What's he?
weeping tears 'Wear these for my sake.' We that are
Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.
Make it their walk.
Ye men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.
I saw her hand: she has a leathern hand.
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
Anon, anon, sir.
Shall be a wall sufficient to defend
Any thing.
O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
Spake you with him?
Nature's; who perceiveth our natural wits too dull
Commit them to the fortune of the sea.
SCENE I. Ely House.
What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles?
Whose shouts and claps out-voice the deep mouth'd sea,
And yet I fear you; for you are fatal then
Did scandal many a holy tear, took pity
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond,
And by and by a cloud takes all away!
And as wicked as his wife?
SCENE I. Bangor. The Archdeacon's house.
Opposed to  hinder me, should stop my way,
Yet never know how that desert should be.
you, to your rights:
into which they vanished. Whiles I stood rapt in
O unhappy youth!
My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope
When evils are most free? O, then by day
On the opposer.
To sort some gentlemen well skill'd in music.
Do it with gentle means and easy tasks:
The princely Charles of France, thy countryman.
For my respects are better than they seem
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.
They sell the pasture now to buy the horse,
Biron did swear himself out of all suit.
drop and liquor fishermen's boots with me; I warrant
The weight of this sad time we must obey;
O, come to me!
Did in your name receive it: pardon the
Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much
Are now to have no successive degrees,
Laying down the child
Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet,
To keep, until your further time of trial.
And stand indebted, over and above,
So please your majesty, I would I could
Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
Good my lord,
God shield I should disturb devotion!
Cambio is changed into Lucentio.
With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
coz; for he's in the third degree of drink, he's
Ay, marry, am I, sir; and now 'tis plotted.
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Remaineth nought, but to inter our brethren,
To find this practise out.
Makes wing to the rooky wood:
To seek the empty, vast and wandering air;
A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist,
No, by my life.
answer: thither with all greediness of affection
being made,
I wonder men dare trust themselves with men:
a kiss in fee-farm! build there, carpenter; the air
disposition; and out of his noble carelessness lets
Pray, do not mock me:
Ah, good my liege, I pray thee, pardon me!
I was of late as petty to his ends
'Ay, by gogs-wouns,' quoth he; and swore so loud,
My lord, here is a note of certain dues.
I shall return before your lordship thence.
Should be shut up, hear what Ulysses speaks.
Then there were two cousins laid up; when the one
Be they of much import?
Enter the KING, SALISBURY, WARWICK, to the CARDINAL in bed
And find I am alone felicitate
Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,
Which, as I take't, we shall; for his best force
Yet, dread Priam,
And did not she herself revile me there?
Is this the Lord Talbot, uncle Gloucester,
Peace, you mumbling fool!
I live to look upon their tragedy.
Swift as a shadow, short as any dream;
A tempest, which his mortal vessel tears,
Shouldst have kept one to thyself, for I mean to
To his own scandal.
To be my henchman.
I should sin
And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
A weight of carrion flesh than to receive
Bardolph, a soldier, firm and sound of heart,
Yet gives he not till judgment guide his bounty,
my offence to him is: it is something of my
As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts
My noble lord,--
thee with scambling, and thou must therefore needs
Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch.
Myrmidons are no bottle-ale houses.
Visit the speechless sick and still converse
To be suspected, framed to make women false.
Noble sir,
How parted with your brothers? how first met them?
have a sword and it shall bite upon my necessity.
To groan and sweat under the business,
Here, Marcus, fold it in the oration;
ACT IV
Must I with base tongue give my noble heart
By giving love your sorrow and my grief
Thou art the ruins of the noblest man
And give't me in mine ear.
From this earth-vexing smart.
You must first go yourself to hazard, ere you have them.
Know, worthy prince, Sir Valentine, my friend,
And I will undertake all these to teach.
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand:
flown, bird! i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh!
As 'twere in love's particular, be more
I sent you money, sir, to be your bail,
You all did see that on the Lupercal
her out of all nick.
No, faith, lords and great men will not let me; if
And take in Toryne? You have heard on't, sweet?
Thanks, gentle Romans: may I govern so,
never liked.
'An if a man did need a poison now,
And that the spoil got on the Antiates
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
To the Doctor
He'll spare none.
SCENE II. The same. A public way or platform leading to the
Enter ROMEO
No planet is of mine.
By Richard that dead is the next of blood?
All's well, sir: take my power i' the court
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
I'll go out then.
Exit with the body
That I do hate thee and love Helena.
Atalanta's better part,
I will respect thee as a father if
I will do't, my lord.
O, do not do your cousin such a wrong.
Forswear themselves as often as they speak:
But bear it as our Roman actors do,
Where rather I'll expect victorious life
I shall have such a life!
Enter a Soldier of CAESAR's
Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in
Yea, but you must not make the full show of this
Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father
My figured goblets for a dish of wood,
My good lord--
That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool;
Exit
I give you welcome with a powerless hand,
Or let a rebel lead you to your deaths?
I cannot tell.
the grate, like a geminy of baboons. I am damned in
Or like a whale?
carries it: they begin to smoke me; and disgraces
Main chance, father, you meant; but I meant Maine,
In envy that my Lord Northumberland
Enter LORENZO and JESSICA
And then all this thou seest is but a clod
Send me your prisoners with the speediest means,
For hands, to do Rome service, are but vain.
SCENE III. The same. A public place.
Fillet of a fenny snake,
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
touch of modesty, that you will not extort from me
A place below the first: for what miscarries
Know then, I here forget all former griefs,
That Mowbray hath received eight thousand nobles
If he fall in, good night! or sink or swim:
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make
What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
By all your vows of love and that great vow
Yet here's a spot.
praiseworthy: and now tell me, how doth your cousin?
And leave your England, as dead midnight still,
minds: methinks I could not die any where so
Within 'A sail, a sail!' Guns heard
My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick
I would invent as bitter-searching terms,
This is an accident of hourly proof,
As 'twere a careless trifle.
And make a chequer'd shadow on the ground:
knew not what to take and what to leave, ha?
'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promised to meet.
though grey
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius!
testimony of his intent, you shall run a certain
Pluck stout men's pillows from below their heads:
Yes, sir; as well as you dare patronage
Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe;
What I shall think is good?--The princess!
said she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,' said I, 'a
I shot his fellow of the self-same flight
Exeunt Citizens
Upon the foot of motion.
Your long coat, priest, protects you; thou
Have misdemean'd yourself, and not a little,
Enter PISTOL
And hark ye, sirs; because she is a maid,
A brittle glory shineth in this face:
Was not incensed by his subtle mother
Sepulchring an adultress.
Thou never didst them wrong, nor no man wrong;
Had nature lent thee but thy mother's look,
[Aside]	To betray me.--
Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
of fourteen; I have known thee already.
Dies
then, 'tis time to do't.--Hell is murky!--Fie, my
till I do come to London, where we will have the
From the inward of thee? One, but painted thus,
Therefore he hates me.
but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I
May turn the tide of fearful faction
To lock it in the wards of covert bosom,
By cock and pie, you shall not choose, sir! come, come.
Of my obscured course; and shall find time
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
Is the king dead? the empire unpossess'd?
Where most you owe obedience?
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
Be it with resolution then to fight.
Some thousands of these logs and pile them up,
Are at the duke's already: you have been
Here in the prison, father,
Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speak
My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
there rust, and let me die.
What an arm he has! he turned me about with his
And that would she for twenty thousand more.
Sir, my liege,
Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
your lordship.
that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a
And so am I for Phebe.
My stern effects: then what I have to do
Ay, and we are betroth'd: nay, more, our,
Some lay in dead men's skulls; and, in those holes
Laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths,
Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous;
The ground indeed is tawny.
'Faith, they listened to me as they would have
Did your letters pierce the queen to any
her degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; I
O, let me clip ye
Exeunt ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
I'll tell thee what, prince; a college of
Than thou wast worthy her.
Under a cloak that is of any length.
For which attempt the judges have pronounced
There's difference in no persons.
Pardon, Caesar; Caesar, pardon:
And here receive we from our father Stanley
Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.
And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen,
To-morrow morning to the council-board
Have at thee, coward!
both, master parson?
Had quite miscarried: I dare be bound again,
Within me is a hell; and there the poison
Ay, he spoke Greek.
You men of Angiers, open wide your gates,
The spinsters, carders, fullers, weavers, who,
You brace of warlike brothers, welcome hither.
Than all the complete armour that thou wear'st!
enforced, for which he suffered death.
Very gladly.
What answer shall I make to this base man?
We may digest our complots in some form.
This shoulder was ordain'd so thick to heave;
Such noble fury in so poor a thing;
As my thoughts aim not at. Cassio's my worthy friend--
You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
Care of your food and living; and, believe it,
Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.
Pray you, lock hand in hand; yourselves in order set
henceforward it shall be treason for any that calls
will have it as it ought to be, you must allow Vox.
How hast thou injured both thyself and us!
four; and, with a word, out-faced you from your
Thy deeds, thy plainness and thy housekeeping,
the sea or weather.
Crust you quite o'er! What, dost thou go?
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
They summon'd up their meiny, straight took horse;
Let us be back'd with God and with the seas
Your heaviest censure.
I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when
I fear me, love, if that I had been dead,
Give o'er the play.
I had thought to have held it poor: but, since my lord
and a head-stall of sheeps leather which, being
Exit
stoup of liquor.
And give it to this fellow. Keep it, fellow;
'Zounds, I will speak of him; and let my soul
So, one by one, we'll weed them all at last,
am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
With observation, the which he vents
The council shall bear it; it is a riot.
SCENE V. The French camp.
Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
Art thou aught else but place, degree and form,
Unless some fit or frenzy do possess her:
In mine own person; holp to reap the fame
Give mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more.
So,
He sups to-night with a harlotry, and thither will I
Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
Thy name is Gaultier, being rightly sounded.
If thou again say 'Yes.'
I'll be so bold to take what they have left.
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
And every Greek of mettle, let him know,
Both, both. O, pardon!
Exeunt
Of woman in me: now from head to foot
Shall there attend you.
And well shall you perceive how willingly
Told the sad story of my father's death,
Nay, 'twill be this hour ere I have done weeping;
To prostitute our past-cure malady
Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.
Nor will not. Come, bring me unto my chance.
Would set me free from this unhallow'd place,
none to guard it but boys.
How parted he with thee? and when shalt thou see
[Aside]  Done like a Frenchman: turn, and turn again!
As well of glib and slippery creatures as
a tooth in her head, though she have as many diseases
Your lordships, that, whenever you have need,
The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
An therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
O brother, with the dismall'st object hurt
follow, follow, follow.
I have a sonnet that will serve the turn
Swear by the duty that you owe to God--
deceive it,
Go get thee gone; fetch me an iron crow.
Let it be call'd the wild and wandering flood,
That what we did was mildly as we might,
That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.
Some dear friend dead; else nothing in the world
Pardon, master;
Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face
Of every creature's best!
With one that saw him die: who did report
Enter PROTEUS
Transparent Helena! Nature shows art,
Sings
The deck, with glove, or hat, or handkerchief,
The dream's here still: even when I wake, it is
Plantagenet shall speak first: hear him, lords;
Enter BIONDELLO
Like witless antics, one another meet,
Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
Persuades me it is otherwise: howe'er it be,
To beguile many and be beguiled by one:
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
That judge hath made me guardian to this boy:
Cold lips blow to their deities, take thee from me.
Hark you, he swears; by Jupiter he swears.
They are then excused, my lord, when they see not
THE SONG
Exeunt PROTEUS and SILVIA severally
Exeunt
My duty then shall pay me for my pains:
O, fie upon them! Some such squire he was
I would prevail, if prayers might prevail,
and, he returning to break our necks, they respect not us.
This is most likely!
Most like a careful subject, have collected
That she is worthy, I know.
Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news;
Pursue him and entreat him to a peace:
Is warm'd by the rest, and takes it thankfully.
By Lady Fortune; while our scene must play
No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
I think he will eat all he kills.
What says my sweet queen? My cousin will fall out
Return in haste, for I do feast to-night
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
And hums, as who should say 'You'll rue the time
Hold, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase,
Good fortune then!
SCENE I. A street before a Priory.
Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
Well, I am school'd: good manners be your speed!
The true succeeders of each royal house,
Opinion, that did help me to the crown,
Come, come, he must not.
With dreadful pomp of stout invasion!
now is the whole man governed with one: so that if
would desires to be acquainted withal.
His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valour;
With hands as pale as milk;
Enter JAQUES, Lords, and Foresters
I come from Lady Juliet.
And such protest of pepper-gingerbread,
Solemn music. Enter, as in an apparition,  SICILIUS LEONATUS, father to Posthumus Leonatus,  an old man, attired like a warrior; leading in  his hand an ancient matron, his wife, and mother  to Posthumus Leonatus, with music before them:  then, after other music, follow the two young  Leonati, brothers to Posthumus Leonatus, with  wounds as they died in the wars. They circle Posthumus Leonatus round, as he lies sleeping
Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade!
Than I dare blame my weakness: will you see her
Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck:
Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.
They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
Advance your standards, and upon them, lords;
Your tale must be how he employ'd my mother.
She takes upon her bravely at first dash.
My father!--methinks I see my father.
And follow you no further: let me go:
Twixt me and death;'--and pointed to this brace;--
I had a Harry, till a Richard kill'd him:
Well, go to, I will;
I will something affect the letter, for it argues facility.
Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
Jove's accord,
love sack, and so do I; would you desire better
Straight let us seek, or straight we shall be sought;
What can be their business
Moist it again, and frame some feeling line
I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff.
O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work,
Shall nothing wrong him. Thus it is, general.
rod of marshalship, a coronet on his head.
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them;
My oath, and my profession: I protest,
holding or loss of that, you term her frail. I do
Thy better must.
Lucius, I will.
I told him of your stealth unto this wood.
I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
Either in snuffs and packings of the dukes,
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
And why he left your court, the gods themselves,
Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight.
Yes, he was.
Where now remains a sweet reversion:
Come, sirrah.
The object and the pleasure of mine eye,
For he is superstitious grown of late,
Her eyelids, cases to those heavenly jewels
teeth and the lips: but this I can let you
and I am yet so near the manners of my mother, that
That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,
Who comes here?
Or get some little knife between thy teeth,
Come, leave your tears: a brief farewell: the beast
Tells Harry that the king doth offer him
on a Dutchman's beard, unless you do redeem it by
Next time I'll keep my dreams unto myself,
cozen somebody in this city under my countenance.
Then lay me forth: although unqueen'd, yet like
Confederate in the fact: ay, more there was;
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
a hare: his dishonesty appears in leaving his
Why, then, farewell;
His goods confiscate to the duke's dispose,
One word, good citizens.
I never gave you aught.
Nay, hear him.
And on their skins, as on the bark of trees,
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
I will be squared by this. I do believe
heinously unprovided. Well, God be thanked for
'Tis grace indeed.
Go to Flint castle: there I'll pine away;
Enter CRESSIDA and ALEXANDER
'Twill not, Sir Thomas Lovell, take't of me,
Dream of impediment! Let me have thy hand:
Upon the hill of Basan, to outroar
I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell;
And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
So great weight in his lightness. If he fill'd
To give thee all, and in his waning age
painted cloths.
hath the finest mad devil of jealousy in him,
Prithee, peace:
DON
What wouldst thou of us, Trojan? make demand.
Or else a wit by folly vanquished.
I will baffle Sir Toby, I will wash off gross
Rate me at what thou wilt, thou shalt be paid.
What proof shall I make of that?
For thou, I fear, hast given me cause to curse,
So much they love it; but to stubborn spirits
Henry Bolingbroke
And since you do profess to be a suitor,
This is the tragic tale of Philomel,
And to myself become an enemy.
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done,
therein would have found issue. Hear me profess
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Be this perpetual. What says our second daughter,
I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius,
When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
And that beyond commission, and I find it,
effusion of our blood, the muster of his kingdom too
neither here nor there.
O, these encounterers, so glib of tongue,
if thou account'st it shame. lay it on me;
Exeunt LUCIUS and MARCUS
Exeunt
would be sorry should be thus foolishly lost at a
Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
some part of our zeals, we should think ourselves
Dispatch.
I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote
I'll not to Rome, I'll back with you; and pray you,
Why should it thrive and turn to nutriment,
farthings--remuneration.--'What's the price of this
We know his handiwork: therefore, good mother,
Exit JOHN OF GAUNT
Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted,
[Aside]  A little more than kin, and less than kind.
Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
I may spur on my journey.
Sound a sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN  MARGARET, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, YORK, BUCKINGHAM, SALISBURY and WARWICK to the Parliament
Then cheer thy spirit : for know, thou emperor,
Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake!'
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
part to intermingle with them. But for which of my
Pompey the Great,--
On what compulsion must I? tell me that.
Can my sides hold, to think that man, who knows
Aloft the flood, and can give audience
That I would all my pilgrimage dilate,
you must learn to know such slanders of the age, or
Or who should study to prefer a peace.
To stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death.
I am happily come hither.
For yet his honour never heard a play--
'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
And hath in his effect a voice potential
Than that which is to approach.
that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
How should I your true love know
You have not given him his mother's letter?
Wherein thou art less happy being fear'd
And thou art twice her love.
But yet I love my country, and am not
My brother Gloucester's voice? Ay;
That's fouler.
too well, for there he fell in love. I have heard
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
Ay, my good lord; 'twas he inform'd against him;
What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
Pompey, return it again: you shall have time to
She says I am not fair, that I lack manners;
What shall I say more than I have inferr'd?
If not to fight with foreign enemies,
Far from her nest the lapwing cries away:
with garlands!
How know you he loves her?
Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.
Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
Enter a Post
I'll win our ancient right in France again,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
Desires your visitation, and to be
their leave: and there is a forerunner come from a
Note, if your lady strain his entertainment
But since he hath
behold. Sweet men, come to him.
Then follow thou thy desperate sire of Crete,
Enter a Citizen
And I wish, my liege,
And strays about to find 'em.
SCENE II. The DUKE OF YORK's palace.
But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.
I throw thy name against the bruising stones,
Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace:
They are already, or quickly will be landed:
Betwixt us as the cement of our love,
They are well dispatch'd; now to my daughter's letter:
Wade to the market-place in Frenchmen's blood,
To die with lengthen'd shame.
To laughter and contempt; that she may feel
to scratch. I must to the barber's, monsieur; for
So, oft it chances in particular men,
Thou hast a traitor in thy presence there.
I am glad to see you in this merry vein:
doctor to such a man.
When you depart, and save your thanks. How say you?
And therein, hellish dog, thou hast undone.
Therefore, dear boy, mount on my swiftest horse;
Out, alas! here comes my master.
The chafed boar, the mountain lioness,
Enter ROMEO
Than the performance of our heaving spleens,
The beggar native honour.
Sir, you o'er-rate my poor kindness: I was glad I
Helen, I mean.
SCENE I. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
Too hideous to be shown. Thou dost mean something:
The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth:
Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold.
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
Away betimes, before his forces join,
name for an ass.
Now, knock when I bid you, sirrah villain!
What means the fool, trow?
Showing a paper
Our Alexandrian revels; Antony
The Grecian dames are sunburnt and not worth
able to lead her a coranto.
Where have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight?
If I now had him brought into my power.
Not meaning to partake with me in danger,
Shame and confusion! all is on the rout;
Solemn music
Aside
Bear with me cousin, for I was amazed
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
But this lies all within the will of God,
Others, like soldiers, armed in their stings,
Enter, below, BRABANTIO, and Servants with torches
I'll make thee an example.
And to the battle came he; where he did
wit! whither wander you?
So in his red blood Cassius' day is set;
friendly counsel: I will run, fiend; my heels are
My resolution and my hands I'll trust;
Than flatter him in a bower. Here is Cominius.
To weep 'twixt clock and clock? if sleep
letter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to
And water once a day her chamber round
As mice by lions--hath pick'd out an act,
But, he away, 'tis noble.
Casca, be sudden, for we fear prevention.
May be a precedent and witness good
Reignier, stand thou as Dauphin in my place:
general run then? were not that a botchy core?
Bear him away. What is thy name, young man?
My ladies both, good day to you.
you, base peasants, do ye believe him? will you
When she shall lack it.
Her tears will pierce into a marble heart;
After a well-graced actor leaves the stage,
Now powers from home and discontents at home
Thou bitch-wolf's son, canst thou not hear?
But, being over-full of self-affairs,
All! I know not what you call all; but if I fought
That any Englishman dare give me counsel?
Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick?
Where having nothing, nothing can he lose.
This day she was both pantler, butler, cook,
Therefore, I pray you, stand not to discourse,
The senator shall bear contempt hereditary,
Tranio, since for the great desire I had
It is my duty, sir.
your ear; I would have no words of it,--my master
For the only she; and--pauca, there's enough. Go to.
have me whipped for lying; and sometimes I am
A man whom both the waters and the wind,
the house: and, Falstaff, you carried your guts
[Coming forward]  Let me see't, let me see't, O, let
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty
his grace, and it better fits my blood to be
That blabb'd them with such pleasing eloquence,
them to mending. They say the lady is fair; 'tis a
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
To give mine enemy a lasting wink;
Welcome. Set down your venerable burthen,
Let us to the great supper: their cheer is the
And yet his punishment was cruel death.
Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
You ne'er kill'd Imogen til now. Help, help!
Vile worm, thou wast o'erlook'd even in thy birth.
am a peppercorn, a brewer's horse: the inside of a
Became a bricklayer when he came to age:
more owing her than is paid; and more shall be paid
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
Though he have served a Roman: save him, sir,
the duke, that my charity be not of him perceived:
If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,
any standers-by to curtail his oaths, ha?
How many women would do such a message?
Keep then far league and truce with thy true bed;
in the oppression of aged tyranny; who sways, not
Your daughter's chastity--there it begins.
Than yet can be imagined or supposed.
And strike you home without a messenger.
Under the which is writ 'Invitis nubibus.'
Witness these trenches made by grief and care,
Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.
My loving lord, Dumain is mortified:
When Signior Sooth here does proclaim a peace,
So, Ilion, fall thou next! now, Troy, sink down!
Hopest thou my cure?
No; an he were, I would burn my study. But, I pray
White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go:
dat I vill not for the varld I shall leave behind.
Thou mayst tell that knowest.
I shall do well:
But with good will. To show our simple skill,
O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham.
'Save your honour!
Re-enter RUGBY
Would long ere this have met us on the way
And pray God's blessing into thy attempt:
great revenue! heaven bless thee from a tutor, and
Perforce, against all cheques, rebukes and manners,
Limps after in base imitation.
Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
rather he should shrive me than wive me. Come,
But few of any sort, and none of name.
Here comes the lady; let her witness it.
LEONATUS POSTHUMUS.'
I would entreat you rather to put on
In simple and pure soul I come to you.
Are gone with him towards Dover; where they boast
Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speak more
Away, away!
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Or foul felonious thief that fleeced poor passengers,
But that my master rather play'd than fought
Jaques of Chatillon, admiral of France;
what's spoken, I swear.
As if there were some monster in his thought
Enter PETRUCHIO and his man GRUMIO
the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply
This present enterprise set off his head,
Make periods in the midst of sentences,
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and the Officer
And at that time bequeathe you my diseases.
That I love her, I feel.
Bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true?
Broach'd with the steely point of Clifford's lance;
What should we say, my lord?
I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.
is to him advantage; or not dying, the time was
that cannot I help. Well, proceed.
Wilt thou have music? hark! Apollo plays,
In this our fabric, if that they--
Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.
Then this remains, that we divide our power.
And mark the musical confusion
Pardon it;
Methinks the power that Edward hath in field
better man than I am?
They fall their crests, and, like deceitful jades,
Cease; no more.
Thou shalt not sigh, nor hold thy stumps to heaven,
Come unto these yellow sands,
Enter BOTTOM
Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burthen;
Authority.
Sleeves, hail kissing-comfits and snow eringoes; let
hands, and says to his wife 'Fie upon this quiet
O, from Italy
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
To you I am bound for life and education;
And art mine own. I know not why, wherefore,
Let go the hand of that arch-heretic;
monster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in my
That I may kindly give one fainting kiss.
Or close the wall up with our English dead.
Orpheus with his lute made trees,
That when they hear the Roman horses neigh,
Because he doth not feel, feel your power quickly;
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
Than I am able to instruct or teach:
What may she not? She may, yea, marry, may she--
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
And wound our tattering colours clearly up,
In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
It is not seen enough, you should wear it in your
transgresses is but patched with sin; and sin that
I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
But cried 'Good seaman!' to the sailors, galling
But I beseech your grace, without offence,--
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
thy mind is a very opal. I would have men of such
O detestable villain! call'st thou that trimming?
A pestilent gall to me!
So man and man should be;
Made me collect these dangers in the duke.
And ever may your highness yoke together,
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Have I disbursed to the garrisons,
SCENE I. Padua. A room in BAPTISTA'S house.
My wife descended of the Lacies,--
As all the poisonous potions in the world
DON
The gods forbid!
They say the French count has done most honourable service.
A million fail, confounding oath on oath.
good friends for three reprieves for you and your
Why, God will send more, if the man will be
If I could add a lie unto a fault,
I humbly thank you.
My women may be with me; for you see
That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
No teeth for the present. Get thee gone: to-morrow
Cadwal,
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Exit
Command these fretting waters from your eyes
We are blessed in the change.
And lose it, life and all, as Arthur did.
Is this Ascension-day? Did not the prophet
More straining on for plucking back, not following
If thou speak'st false,
Bedlam, have done.
Chaplain, away! thy priesthood saves thy life.
He'll shape his old course in a country new.
I am sorry my integrity should breed,
Hath not the ring upon it; it is gone.
Not I	pray you, what are they?
And care not who they sting in his revenge.
If case some one of you would fly from us,
Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter;
have not in abundance?
Son, let your mother end.
Why, art thou mad, old fellow?
Who, but for staying on our controversy,
Tigers must prey, and Rome affords no prey
For first he was contract to Lady Lucy--
First, make yourself but like one.
For fear they die before their pardon come.
As near the dawning, provost, as it is,
thou shalt find the best king of good fellows.
And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight:
Her brother is in secret come from France;
What say you now? what comfort have we now?
And with a dropping industry they skip
With solemn reverence: throw away respect,
An you part so, mistress, I would I might never
Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
Into this city's bosom.
you with a good name: to be a well-favoured man is
so likes your music, that he desires you, for love's
slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this
And to imperial Love, that god most high,
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Antipholus of Ephesus
But amongst honest women.
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
SCENE III. A council-chamber.
That's my brave boy!
Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
And make him proud to make me proud that jests!
Exeunt all except PRINCE HENRY and PETO
Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.
From him that fled some strange indignity,
You do yourself wrong, indeed, la!
Enter Widow and DIANA
[Aside]	O noble strain!
[Aside to SUFFOLK]      If it do,
yellow stockings, and wished to see thee ever
Flight cannot stain the honour you have won;
To-morrow shall we visit you again.
Exeunt
You shall not stir out of your house to-day.
Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother Clarence?
Take or lend. Ho! No answer? Then I'll enter.
Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays and all.
The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster,
with thee to disgrace her.
And study help for that which thou lament'st.
And in the vapour of my glory smother'd.
If thou wilt curse, thy father, that poor rag,
down before their city Corioli; they nothing doubt
That I am forced to lay my reverence by
Of which there is not one, I dare avow,
Beetles black, approach not near;
Prophet may you be!
honourable parts, and are the governor of this place.
And with a great heart heave away the storm:
False fiend, avoid!
finger and his thumb, as one would set up a top.
Presently
'Tis better thee without than he within.
Give him tending;
He hath indeed, almost natural: for besides that
All the better; we shall be the more marketable.
I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor
Exit KING HENRY VIII, frowning upon CARDINAL WOLSEY: the Nobles throng after him, smiling and whispering
Like Romans, neither foolish in our stands,
answer in a catechism.
Exit
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards:
Your money!
The rest o' the island.
To BELARIUS
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
unhappily; as of unnaturalness between the child
Exeunt
I better brook the loss of brittle life
If haply you my father do suspect
See whether their basest metal be not moved;
The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks,
backs, what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a
What ruin happen'd in revenge of him,
This Gloucester should be quickly rid the world,
SCENE V. Another room in Philario's house.
Why, then, give way, dull clouds, to my quick curses!
If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess
Whose glorious deeds, but in these fields of late,
No, hath not? Rosalind lacks then the love
Who should be pitiful, if you be not?
Then mark the inducement. Thus it came; give heed to't:
CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, are driven out
Help me, my women! O, he is more mad
deed and word? is it a true thing?
There is no following her in this fierce vein:
When he might act the woman in the scene,
Thank, gentle uncle. Come, lords, away.
That noises it against us.
What cause of suspicion! Out pon you! how am I
Or whether he be 'scaped away or no
Nor tell the world Antiochus doth sin
The Dian of that time so doth my wife
As Hercules
Not know my voice! O time's extremity,
Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
I see that nose of yours, but not that dog I shall
His subjects to oppression and contempt
Let your highness
Command me.
O my good lord, the world is but a word:
Thou art reverent
Of bloody turbulence, and this whole night
For idleness itself.
Mayor, farewell: thou dost but what thou mayst.
Give me leave, beseech you. I did send,
turns up the white o' the eye to his discourse. But
ever chewed with a tooth. Eight yards of uneven
Some private speech with you.
And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain;
Juno but an Ethiope were;
That sucks the nurse asleep?
Answer your summons; Juno does command:
Enter KING RICHARD II and Guard
The other, when she has obtain'd your eye,
Then the charm is firm and good.
To have you therein my companion.
A laughter.
Might be affronted with the match and weight
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
There are a kind of men so loose of soul,
The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed.
Beelzebub? Here's a farmer, that hanged
Which every noble Roman bears of you.
As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more
porridge than in your cheek; and your virginity,
By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me
It fits us then to be as provident
Where now you're both a father and a son,
We'll know all our fortunes.
Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil
Achieve the elder, set the younger free
Now help, ye charming spells and periapts;
Play with your fancies, and in them behold
As I by thine a wife: this is a match,
A dear happiness to women: they would else have
Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer,
Ne'er trust me then; for when a world of men
Ye lie, hostess: Bardolph was shaved and lost many
The rather that you give his offspring life,
I cannot name; 'tis nameless woe, I wot.
How I would think on him at certain hours
What, wilt thou not? Where is that devil's butcher,
Enter Servant
No, Cassius, no: think not, thou noble Roman,
thou ask me why, sufficeth, my reasons are both good
How shall I know thee again?
I'll send some holy bishop to entreat;
more of you to myself than you can with modesty
Than in the pride and salt scorn of his eyes,
seven groats in mill-sixpences, and two Edward
Thou art their soldier, and being bred in broils
To answer mildly; for they are prepared
me see; what think you of falling in love?
As his wise mother wrought in his behalf,
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
As much as we this night have overwatch'd.
Any companion in the world but you,
What vice is that, good Troilus? chide me for it.
with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a
O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
She dreams of him that has forgot her love;
Seeing that death, a necessary end,
DON
It is an attribute to God himself;
To LADY ANNE
the coast on Wednesday the four-score of April,
About surrender up of Aquitaine
They're loving, well composed with gifts of nature,
The ground that gave them first has them again:
At all times alike
for ever perfect.
No?
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
With horn and hound we'll give your grace bonjour.
testimony and witness, and will avouchment, that
For 'tis thy presence that exhales this blood
How now, my charge!
Look you, who comes here; a young man and an old in
Bear with her weakness, which, I think proceeds
So, Bassianus, you have play'd your prize:
This deadly quarrel daily doth beget!
'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
If only to go warm were gorgeous,
Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet
Those pelican daughters.
o' the way?
But kill not all together.
That Henry born at Monmouth should win all
As doubtful thoughts, and rash-embraced despair,
Late did he shine upon the English side;
The leading of the vaward.
You gentle Romans,--
the very ice of chastity is in them.
ANTIPHOLUS
And how you find of her.
Fie, fie, how franticly I square my talk,
But might you do't, and do the world no wrong,
at home and be hanged.
Ha, no, no, faith; thou singest well enough for a shift.
A herald, ho!
Some men must love my lady and some Joan.
Love my wife!
You shall by that perceive him and his means:
SCENE II. Athens. QUINCE'S house.
Where is the life that late I led--
Will stand a tip-toe when the day is named,
He is a good one, and his worthiness
And all the budding honours on thy crest
She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
That virtue must go through. We must not stint
And bring me how he takes my death.
And wit depends on dilatory time.
is beaten black and blue, that you cannot see a
That whoso draws a sword, 'tis present death,
Bless thy five wits!
Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day?
Nay, let him alone: I'll go another way to work
But to procrastinate his lifeless end.
Thou pitied'st Rutland; I will pity thee.
they'll stick where they are thrown.
I have eyes upon him,
But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
The sun's o'ercast with blood: fair day, adieu!
With six Aufidiuses, or more, his tribe,
Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day
SCENE VI. Before Macbeth's castle.
This is the sergeant
Thanks, dear Isabel.
could then have looked on him without the help of
If the business be of any difficulty, and this
come, shall we about it?
That most pure spirit of sense, behold itself,
Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves;
My lord, I shall reply amazedly,
They shall be no more than needful there, if they
The eagle suffers little birds to sing,
Say'st thou me so? is that a ton of moys?
To overbear it, and we are all well pleased,
This is the deadly spite that angers me;
I go, sir.
Me shall you find ready and willing
is immortal; those that do die of it do seldom or
O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four
With those that have but little: this must be patch'd
As well wherein 'tis precious of itself
You'll speak with Coriolanus.
What treason were it to the ransack'd queen,
The which, how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke
but if he had not been in drink, he would have
It will not let you eat, nor talk, nor sleep,
And, were there sense in his idolatry,
But in this troublous time what's to be done?
This royal throne of kings, this scepter'd isle,
By her election may be truly read
Let me play the lion too: I will roar, that I will
To be acknowledged, madam, is o'erpaid.
Alas the day! I never gave him cause.
Upon her patient breast, making their way
That you stand forfeit, being those that sue?
Is now become a god, and Cassius is
Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again:
A space whose every cubit
he can resolve you.
Pleasant and helpful to him!
thy voyage, lose thy master, and, in losing thy
account?--Yet who would have thought the old man
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
I'll make a peace between your soul and you.
How canst thou part sadness and melancholy, my
[Aside]  If I talk to him, with his innocent prate
What shall I do? say what; what shall I do?
Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
Your lordship speaks your pleasure.
Why, what concerns his freedom unto me?
She that is queen of Tunis; she that dwells
I could beat forty of them.
So when he had occasion to be seen,
Pistol, did you pick Master Slender's purse?
I have received a hurt: follow me, lady.
I attend them with all respect and duty.
What thought I be not so in grace as you,
Turn your displeasure that way: for our faults
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
One rich enough to be Petruchio's wife,
Shamest thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught,
They may vex us with shot, or with assault.
Alas, what joy shall noble Talbot have
Why, then he is alive.
Richard du Champ.
There's not a whittle in the unruly camp
Yet what can it when one can not repent?
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
The cup of their deservings. O, see, see!
stole from Florence, taking no leave, and I follow
So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
Rough cradle for such little pretty ones!
'Tis a good constraint of fortune it belches upon us.
No; rather I will go to Benedick
Turning from him
To speak your deeds, not little of his care
I humbly thank his grace; and from these shoulders,
May plod it in a week, why may not I
In undetermined differences of kings.
Not mine to speak on 't.
toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no
The running of one glass.
If I be one.
No, boy, not so; I'll teach thee another course.
knock; never at quiet! What are you? But
just and his quarrel honourable.
Here, master doctor, in perplexity and doubtful dilemma.
You have discharged this honestly; keep it to
Enter MARK ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, with others
He is within, with two right reverend fathers,
You take my house when you do take the prop
To death or to dishonour; and my end
Twenty adieus, my frozen Muscovits.
I, King Pericles, have lost
I dare not say, from the rich cardinal
That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
Cry, Trojans, cry! practise your eyes with tears!
Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.
Come, mistress; come your ways with me.
But Rosaline, you have a favour too:
Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh;
And is not like the sire: honours thrive,
Will very well become a soldier's dance.
you.
And let belief and life encounter so
on the voice of occupation and
Yet, by your leave, the wind was very high;
They say, in him they fear your highness' death;
A fine volley of words, gentlemen, and quickly shot off.
Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
She sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
Moreover, he hath left you all his walks,
O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence;
Are stuck upon thee: volumes of report
And Cassio kill'd!
What dangers, by his highness' fail of issue,
that loves quails; but he has not so much brain as
Importune him once more to go, my lord;
Have suffer'd like a girl: yet thou dost look
at the dearest chandler's in Europe. I have
Stay:
To the whole race of mankind, high and low! Amen.
more money than I'll speak of.
Only my wars with him: he is a lion
For which you are a traitor to the people.
Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
Man-enter'd thus, he waxed like a sea,
Tongues I'll hang on every tree,
A man in all the world's new fashion planted,
Master, shall I be porter at the gate?
Out, rascal dogs!
Or Somerset or York, all's one to me.
Enter VIOLA, and Clown with a tabour
Shall pitch a field when we are dead.
And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace
If you know aught which does behove my knowledge
You are deceived, your brother Gloucester hates you.
Diana, aid my purpose!
Where? yonder? that's Deiphobus. 'Tis Troilus!
Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not
According to his virtue let us use him,
Such have but a shadow's bliss:
beggar wont her brat; and, I think when he hath
God save the king!
That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave
But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
you, who is his companion? Is there no young
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
fitted for 't.
Doth your lordship call?
That from it all consideration slips!
Be ruled by me: depart in patience,
money of the king's coming down the hill; 'tis going
What's the matter! there be four of us here have
That lift your vassal hands against my head
That beasts shall tremble at thy din.
This bottle makes an angel.
Depose me? if thou dost it half so gravely, so
many opportunities to cut him off: if your will
And therefore I yield thee my free consent.
Be singly counterpoised. At sixteen years,
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
O, he's a limb that has but a disease;
So doth the cony struggle in the net.
Thy honour, state and seat is due to me.
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough.
She did betray me to my own reproof.
When nought would be accepted but the ring,
His arms spread wider than a dragon's wings;
I mean, that married her, alack, good man!
Was a deep envious one.
Nor keep his princely heart from Richard's hand.
Enter the Thieves again
Would seem but modest: therefore, I beseech you
What says she to my birth?
Gaze where you should, and that will clear your sight.
Obey the bride, you that attend on her;
The trumpets sound, and KING RICHARD enters with  his nobles, JOHN OF GAUNT, BUSHY, BAGOT, GREEN, and  others. When they are set, enter THOMAS MOWBRAY in arms, defendant, with a Herald
it no further: I had thought to have let in
With scruples and do set the word itself
The mathematics and the metaphysics,
Which seem to move and wanton with her breath,
And are the cities, that I got with wounds,
To things of sale a seller's praise belongs,
ANTIPHOLUS
Should we be taking leave
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
SCENE IV. A street.
And therefore put I on the countenance
A trim exploit, a manly enterprise,
Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;
Farewell, my lord: I as your lover speak;
What's thy name?
You were lately whipped, sir, as I think.
It rain'd down fortune showering on your head;
As he is but my father's brother's son,
Than bees that made 'em.
And it was dyed in mummy which the skilful
So hung upon with love, so fortunate,
Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle
If he be leaden, icy-cold, unwilling,
The Second Knight passes over
all!
A woman's shape doth shield thee.
Bear to my closet. Fare thee well, Pisanio;
Tell her, I hold as giddily as fortune;
Hold, worthy lady, hold:
and have given ourselves without scruple to hell,
My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
Come hither, ere my tree hath felt the axe,
Give me my boots, I say; saddle my horse.
For that I saw the tyrant's power a-foot:
garments, your lowliness; and what your highness
Speak, sirs; how was it?
Who found this letter? Tamora, was it you?
Dined at home! Thou villain, what sayest thou?
Against the part I come with; so I'll die
Entomb'd upon the very hem o' the sea;
To any happy messenger from thence.
I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir,--
that hath been long studying at Rheims; as cunning
trick you served me when I took my leave of Madam
And all my study be to no effect?
Enter QUEEN and Ladies
As, first, good company, good wine, good welcome,
Flout 'em and scout 'em
Is it not true, Master Page?
Lady, you come hither to be married to this count.
Will this description satisfy him?
Anon expect him here; but if she be obdurate
Up to the breach, you dogs! avaunt, you cullions!
Enter VENTIDIUS as it were in triumph, with SILIUS,  and other Romans, Officers, and Soldiers; the dead body of PACORUS borne before him
Now the number is even.
I saw them at the prison: a saucy friar,
Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
Your light grows dark by losing of your eyes.
An evil soul producing holy witness
And by that order of proscription.
And in sad cypress let me be laid;
Well, sit you out: go home, Biron: adieu.
We'll follow Cade, we'll follow Cade!
As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance.
There shall your master have a thousand loves,
in hand in sad conference: I whipt me behind the
As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
The miserable have no other medicine
That wildly grows in them, but yields a crop
So fair, and fasten'd to an empery,
We'll both together lift our heads to heaven,
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,
Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius,
That she with Cassio hath the act of shame
That should have murdered Bassianus here.
advantage of hope. I will indeed no longer endure
And kings have been your fellows.
Bear Worcester to the death and Vernon too:
If every one knows us and we know none,
Exeunt King Edward and his company. March. Warwick and his company follow
I have told him, Lepidus was grown too cruel;
She shall be married to this noble earl.
They laugh at. O my mother, mother! O!
Were it not that my fellow-school-master
Re-enter DON PEDRO
The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiest
A widow, then?
To Valentinus, Rowland, and to Crassus,
I am ignorant in what I am commanded.
As not a soldier of this season's stamp
Enchanting all that you put in.
O, that's an honest fellow. Do not doubt, Cassio,
abhors, and cross-gartered, a fashion she detests;
Our daughter Mary: i' the progress of this business,
And think you now are all in Mytilene.
The immortal Jove's dead clamours counterfeit,
I am directed by you.
Ha!
Saw you the weird sisters?
With this cramm'd reason: reason and respect
With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here
How may likeness made in crimes,
The hollow passage of my poison'd voice,
And touching now the point of human skill,
From men of royal siege, and my demerits
I cannot speak enough of this content;
Listen great things:--Brutus and Cassius
Come, Dromio, come, these jests are out of season;
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
O blessed bond of board and bed!
Big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggar'd host
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud;
You shall offend him and extend his passion:
Until a power be raised to put them down.
'Twill grieve your grace my sons should call you father.
With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must:
Place you that side; I'll take the charge of this:
For France, 'tis ours; and we will keep it still.
I know it by this mark. He loved me dearly,
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
Discolour: and so Montjoy, fare you well.
When love begins to sicken and decay,
To unburden all my plots and purposes
It would become me
To send their smiles before them to Achilles;
And in this mood will give us any thing.
any thing, and call it purchase. Bardolph stole a
But silence, like a Lucrece knife,
How? of adultery? Wherefore write you not
And with your best endeavour have stirr'd up
last devours them all at a mouthful: such whales
Enter the DAUPHIN, ORLEANS, RAMBURES, and others
The want thereof makes thee abominable:
thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona,
But I will have them, if I once know where.
But the word 'maid,' cheats the poor maid of that,
Well, gentlemen,
By heaven, I'll know thy thoughts.
At your noble pleasure.
I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him:
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
Shall I speak for thee? shall I say 'tis so?
As manhood shall compound: push home.
In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.
For as a surfeit of the sweetest things
And, nephew, challenged you to single fight.
Just of his colour. What if we do omit
And all that poets feign of bliss and joy.
They wake
natural for our whetstone; for always the dulness of
Lays down his mantle
Peter Quince,--
the incursions, thou strikest as slow as another.
Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off,
To be a secondary at control,
What two reverend bishops
And stand betwixt two churchmen, good my lord;
You have: I knew it would be your answer. Well,
as the first of May doth the last of December. But I
confession, learn to begin thy health; but, whilst I
Sir, lend me your arm.
As I can of those mysteries which heaven
I shall, sir. Fare you well.
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
matter of more weight; good Isis, I beseech thee!
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
Of many thousand kisses the poor last
If you be pleased, retire into my cell
pass of pate; there's another garment for't.
Because they died in honour's lofty bed.
Why, then I see
stubborn outside, with an aspect of iron, that, when
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.
because your heart is in love with her; and out of
Sir?
Here in Vienna, sir.
And betwixt them and my lord chamberlain;
For your life you durst not!
I nothing but to please his fantasy.
I find an apt remission in myself;
It is a pretty mocking of the life.
I do embrace your offer; and dispose
You bead, you acorn.
My lord the Duke of Buckingham, and Earl
With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed:
Reads from a scroll
Even in theirs and in the commons' ears,
terms, as I may: and that's the humour of it.
How she holds up the neb, the bill to him!
As new into the world, strange, unacquainted:
Wilt live, fly after: and like an arrow shot
Write me a prologue; and let the prologue seem to
Lend me a fool's heart and a woman's eyes,
I know his gait, 'tis he.--Villain, thou diest!
services thou hast done; which if I have not enough
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
Why should he call her whore? who keeps her company?
Enter CALPURNIA
Who, busied in his majesty, surveys
light; and convey what I will set down to my lady:
Bring forth the body of old Salisbury,
Hearest thou, Biondello?
O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
If his occasion were not virtuous,
O sweet Portia,
Pleased with this dainty bait, thus goes to bed.
Which with experimental seal doth warrant
And do a wilful stillness entertain,
This, this: no more, you gods! your present kindness
badness in himself.
You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it:
With vilest torture let my life be ended.
I prithee, gentle friend,
The profit of the state. For your great graces
And when you saw his chariot but appear,
are to be smiled at, their offences being so
and the king shall live without an heir, if that
And so I would be here, but that I doubt
[Aside]  Must thou needs stand for a villain in
What, shall our feast be kept with slaughter'd men?
ACT IV
to master Jew's?
And he may well in fretting spend his gall,
The bound of honour, or in act or will
We have not yet been seen in any house,
Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me: my nursh-a
Lower! hark, again.
To the people, beg their stinking breaths.
Not I	what are you?
As who should say 'Old lad, I am thine own.'
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
Sojourn in Mantua; I'll find out your man,
Sheep run not half so treacherous from the wolf,
Is this the fashion in the court of England?
My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
As little joy, my lord, as you suppose
A man already made, as to remit
Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must
Now, Esperance! Percy! and set on.
Come, come it nay not be. I wonder much,
Away, my lord! you are slow; for shame, away!
Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
Gramercy! wouldst thou aught with me?
If yet your gentle souls fly in the air
Stretch him out longer.
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke,
To use it for my time: I am a brother
Enter LEONATO, HERO, and BEATRICE, with a Messenger
Butchers and villains! bloody cannibals!
And nature, stronger than his just occasion,
Out of my sight! thou dost infect my eyes.
To gain the timely inn; and near approaches
The cares I give I have, though given away;
Even in the faith of valour, to appear
Will I look to't.
As this that I have reach'd: for know, Iago,
Every third thought shall be my grave.
tap: said I well, bully Hector?
after! come, 'tis a foolish saying.
A lady wall'd about with diamonds!
A most inherent baseness.
A sceptre shall it have, have I a soul,
That little thinks she has been sluiced in's absence
By custom of the coronation.
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
I will, captain: farewell.
matters grow to your likings.
offence, Claudio?
No Achilles with him.
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
Things of like value differing in the owners
We will not line his thin bestained cloak
There should be found such false dissembling guile?
Exeunt BIANCA, KATHARINA, and Widow
Civil dissension is a viperous worm
die when thou wilt, if manhood, good manhood, be
Without her love; for her employ them all;
You would not make me such an argument.
Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook,
It shall be what o'clock I say it is.
But in the estimation of a hair,
To liberty and not to banishment.
What sin you do to save a brother's life,
ANTIPHOLUS
He it is that hath
out for him: I frown the while; and perchance wind
Is it not too far gone? 'Tis time to part them.
Deservedly confined into this rock,
The treasury of life, when life itself
death have good inspirations: therefore the lottery,
Exit RUGBY
you.
By God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit. Can
I can produce a champion that will prove
What judgment shall I dread, doing
[Within]  Let me come in, and you shall know
Till he come home again, I would forbear.
Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.
widow weeps.
O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
Nor I.
But this cannot continue.
No, I serve not thy master.
What manner of man are you? My lord, I look'd
Thou art the best o' the cut-throats: yet he's good
Have we no wine here?
I do give lost; for I do feel it gone,
Indeed!
Exeunt
May prove his travel, not her danger.
Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal
There cannot be those numberless offences
Therefore I'll make him sure; yea, and I'll swear I
uncoined constancy; for he perforce must do thee
For others say thou dost deserve, and I
You only speak from your distracted soul;
knower, and Patroclus is a fool.
I'll make her render up her page to me.
Saw his heroical seed, and smiled to see him,
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
How I would make him fawn and beg and seek
No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down.
Than bear so low a sail, to strike to thee.
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
Air, quoth he, thy cheeks may blow;
True, too true, my lord:
Sweet marjoram.
I dare be bound he's true and shall perform
She is not for your turn, the more my grief.
And are upon the Mediterranean flote,
I'll to the king;
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.
And his great person perish.
Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit
Exit
Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
To answer this your charge?
Measureless liar, thou hast made my heart
What ship of Epidamnum stays for me?
For daws to peck at: I am not what I am.
For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
Hang 'em, slaves! I do not think the knight would
But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear
Flourish. SATURNINUS courts TAMORA in dumb show
pot; shall have ten hoops and I will make it felony
I must be one of these same dumb wise men,
Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
A little water clears us of this deed:
Enter another Carrier
Silence, good mother; hear the embassy.
Which Salique land the French unjustly gloze
Come hither, come hither. How did this argument begin?
Then give me leave, for losers will have leave
Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
I tell thee what: get thee to church o' Thursday,
Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me:
God's body! the turkeys in my pannier are quite
Exeunt, carrying her away
Enter ROSS and ANGUS
Yourself pronounce their office. I must tell you,
Exit
That you are so.
Yet do our hearts wear Timon's livery;
Go not away. What have you there, my friend?
Knocking within
Would I admit; no name of magistrate;
And they have served me to effectless use:
To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
And hold fair friendship with his majesty.
the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his
O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.
Now marry in an instant.
That you will feed on; but what is, come see.
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst!
which is as much to say as, let the magistrates be
O monstrous world! Take note, take note, O world,
Be hostages for Rome.
with too much as they that starve with nothing. It
And what offence it is to flout his friends.
You have some sick offence within your mind,
Why force you this?
My liege, her ear
And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee. Away!
Out of your favours, heavenly spirits, vouchsafe
Lizard's leg and owlet's wing,
What say you, then, to Falconbridge, the young baron
betray nice wenches, that would be betrayed without
We are but warriors for the working-day;
With very ignorance; we have kiss'd away
Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,
Then tell me, whither were I best to send him?
Not according to the prayer of the people, for they
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
The bloom that promiseth a mighty fruit.
Most barbarous intimation! yet a kind of
The more my wrong, the more his spite appears:
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,
Why, thou full dish of fool, from Troy.
And turn his merry note
While other jests are something rank on foot,
By wicked powers.
And here choose I; joy be the consequence!
When the rash mood is on.
Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits,
process-server, a bailiff; then he compassed a
And earns a place i' the story.
May be abused? Have you not read, Roderigo,
Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
Il est trop difficile, madame, comme je pense.
How does your grace?
The issue of the exploit. Go, Hercules!
I see into thy end, and am almost
The date is out of such prolixity:
Till we do hear from them.
No, it begins again.
Through my burn'd bosom, nor entreat the north
therefore be of good cheer, for truly I think you
Sir,
Stand all apart Cousin of Buckingham!
Good faith, across: but, my good lord 'tis thus;
should fall
[To NERISSA]  By yonder moon I swear you do me wrong;
But are you flesh and blood?
I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,
My mistress, dearest;
the thunder would not peace at my bidding; there I
Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away!
By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de vorld; he
But how hath she
No epilogue, I pray you; for your play needs no
Indeed, it is a strange-disposed time:
Do shameful execution on herself.
There shall he sit till noon.
SCENE III. A bedchamber.
That you shall hate it both: therefore take heed,
Hath a sharp edge: it's long and, 't may be said,
Now, sir, what is your text?
My Lord of Warwick, and my brother Gloucester,
Thou camest on earth to make the earth my hell.
With his eyes full of anger.
An't please your majesty, 'tis the gage of one that
Thanks, royal sir.
about Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being
Villain, what hast thou done?
It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly:
But, in mine emulous honour, let him die,
Untimely ripp'd.
Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
But all his mind is bent to holiness,
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
And yet, how nature erring from itself,--
The weary way hath made you melancholy.
Exeunt
Pray you, be gone:
And still enjoy thy regal dignity.
And yet my nature never in the fight
Well, sir, I will; therefore, I will, sir; thus:
What, do you tremble? are you all afraid?
foolish woman your wife! she gave it him, and he
I denied you not.
And make and mar
To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo.
Ay, like a black dog, as the saying is.
Unless we sweep 'em from the door with cannons--
Some misadventure.
arraigned of high treason, in committing adultery
And, which is worse, all you have done
It is to be all made of sighs and tears;
What said he when he came unto himself?
I am a feather for each wind that blows:
The king is kind; and well we know the king
This knight, no less for bounty bound to us
In great measure.
[Aside to GARDINER]  Give me your hand much joy and
A retreat sounded
I prithee, give no limits to my tongue:
And manifest experience had collected
Monsieur Le Beau.
My playfellow, your hand; this kingly seal
Destroy our friends and after weep their dust
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
Wert thou an oracle to tell me so,
great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no request
knowledge?
But here without you shall be so received
Without indurance, further.
Not unaccompanied invest him only,
he hear us not, 'regia,' presume not, 'celsa senis,'
To envious and calumniating time.
And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea,
Enter LADY MACBETH, reading a letter
Exit
Come not before him.
Is it not strange and strange?
And he will look as hollow as a ghost,
Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear!
I may so.
Thus smiling, as some fly hid tickled slumber,
And 'gentle Harry Percy,' and 'kind cousin;'
With ruffs and cuffs and fardingales and things;
Such terrible impression made the dream.
Sir,
To qualify in others: were he meal'd with that
Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
To save the innocent: any thing possible.
Enter QUEEN MARGARET, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, PRINCE EDWARD, and Soldiers
Our written purposes before us sent;
With fearful bloody issue arbitrate.
No, it is struck.
Edward Plantagenet, why art thou dead?
[Aside]  Mine honesty and I begin to square.
The pretty follies that themselves commit;
I'll have no bigger: this doth fit the time,
I did never know so full a voice issue from so
I came yonder from a great supper: the prince your
Hereditary ours.
Enter CONSTANCE
And she will tell you who your fellow is
While we bethink a means to break it off.
SCENE II. The same. The DUKE's palace.
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
What, what? first praise me and again say no?
Death may usurp on nature many hours,
Let it be granted you have seen all this--and praise
Chi non ti vede non ti pretia.
Mutually.
Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
O sir, I shall be hated to report it!
Say then, who dost thou mean shall be her king?
you have found him than he was when you sought him:
Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry?
And see the holy edifice of stone,
'Tis true; she rides me and I long for grass.
The curse my noble father laid on thee,
With oily painting. Shall I draw the curtain?
O, my dear lord,--
Come away.
A scullion!
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS, with a commission
Upon our territories; and have already
A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind;
will not use them.
And all the household servants fled with him
is?
He supp'd at my house; but I therefore shake not.
hobby-horses must not hear.
Have mind upon your health, tempt me no further.
Exit Gentleman
As frowning at the favours of the world?
Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye
The count's gentleman, one Cesario: we took him for
We have, sir.
God save the king! Will no man say amen?
That he is borne about invisible:
I am glad I am so acquit of this tinderbox: his
So thrive I in my dangerous attempt
Exit with the body
Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it.
TROILUS passes
utters them as he had eaten ballads and all men's
Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt:
Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid;
And so farewell. Katharina, you may stay;
Lords of the wide world and wild watery seas,
Supported his estate; nay, Timon's money
What makes treason here?
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
And fit it with such furniture as suits
Or shall I think in silver she's immured,
The senators and patricians love him too:
When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down,
Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift,
I see it in
Which bleeds away, even as a form of wax
And give me leave,
Or whether gasted by the noise I made,
Wherefore?
'Tis true; the raven doth not hatch a lark:
By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves
Re-enter Porter with keys
Sicinius Velutus, and I know not--'Sdeath!
Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
For 'tis to such a thing,--
Cordelia leaves you: I know you what you are;
Had our great palace the capacity
And now I should not lie, but will deserve
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
A deed without a name.
have loved thyself better now. What man didst thou
Shall we hear from you, Catesby, ere we sleep?
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive
Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost,
dream of such a thing?
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
the brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and I begin to
The dead men's blood, the pining maidens groans,
In his tongue.
And you, sir, to outlive the age I am,
That all your interest in those territories
Whose sudden sight hath thrall'd my wounded eye.
should buy first, as if my trinkets had been
No, my most worthy master; in whose breast
To use between your strangeness and his pride,
Alas, good Cassius, do not think of him:
argument in;
Hear a little further
With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere
From thee, even from thy virtue!
Nurse?
Exit Attendant
Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
I'll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne:
father and the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll
And Talbot perisheth by your default.
Enter Attendants, and BIGOT, carrying KING JOHN in a chair
For certain ducats: he with none return'd
No, my good lord;
Were he in favour as in humour alter'd.
For I must hence; and farewell to you all.
Belike, boy, then, you are in love; for last
Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk
O, never was there queen
Grows, lives and dies in single blessedness.
Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne?
Lies down and sleeps
Our poesy is as a gum, which oozes
This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.
Yonder man is carried to prison.
ANTIPHOLUS
O,
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
Be not afraid that I your hand should take;
I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord.
given to virtue, I would swear by thy face; my oath
Which is the hot condition of their blood;
Mistress?
First, he commends him to your noble lordship.
If we compose well here, to Parthia:
If so, gaze on, and grovel on thy face,
So much for that. Now for our Irish wars:
Therefore, my lord,--
a heavy reckoning to make, when all those legs and
What is the reason of this terrible summons?
epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
That Marcius shall be consul:
Why, master mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
But how, is to be question'd; for I saw her,
To see some mischief on him. O!
Hautboys
Are we all ready? What is now amiss
The king is come: deal mildly with his youth;
Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will I lean;
The commons hast thou rack'd; the clergy's bags
mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible; a getter of more
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift;
To triumph, like an Amazonian trull,
'Tis very good; I must be circumstanced.
Even since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
Farewell, good cousin; farewell, gentle friends.
Maiden, no remedy.
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
For here, I hope, begins our lasting joy.
With all the virtues that attend the good,
You must bear with me:
she was quartered. They fell on; I made good my
When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud,
I cannot joy, until I be resolved
I'll visit you.
killed him. Why may not he rise as well as I?
Is there a murderer here?  No. Yes, I am:
Exeunt CLARENCE, BRAKENBURY, and Guard
[Aside]              Honest lord,
I do think so. Pray you, turn your eyes upon me.
That set him high in fame.
She is sad and passionate at your highness' tent.
Meet and ne'er part till one drop down a corse.
Deliver up the crown, and to take mercy
My lord, in heart; and let the health go round.
Do so: farewell.
Whither I must, I must; and, to conclude,
I'll answer to my lust: and know you, lord,
More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.
ANTIPHOLUS
Thy sheep be in the corn;
Lionel Duke of Clarence: next to whom
And spare no blood beside.
Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you,
Believe me, thou talkest of an admirable conceited
It forged him some design, which, being believed,
When in that moment, so it came to pass,
I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too.
This is a lord! O noble misery,
Yet I not doing this, the fool had borne
For by that loss I will not purchase them.
Shall blow ten thousand souls to heaven or hell;
The town might fall in fright: he, swift of foot,
Why, now is Henry king, and Margaret queen;
Trumpets sound. Enter REIGNIER, below
To do that thing that ends all other deeds;
Approve their truths by Troilus: when their rhymes,
Throw thy glove,
When Cressy battle fatally was struck,
married a shepherd's daughter.
great matter.
Would be her lord? or shall I say, her uncle?
Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh, sir! Why, you
Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,
He's married, madam.
like myself in this, let him be whipped that first
Here is the man, this Moor, whom now, it seems,
good of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself,
come, put it on; keep thee warm. Now, afore me, a
Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
Stand fair, I pray thee: let me look on thee.
His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate,
He misses not much.
SCENE III. A heath near Forres.
That would I learn of you,
It doth, my worthy lord; and in this match
Madam, and pretty mistresses, give ear:
A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
There is no certain princess that appears;
Christian, that means to be saved by believing
First go with me to church and call me wife,
See you these, husband? do not these fair yokes
Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
hundred and fifty; Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so
sings 'em over as they were gods or goddesses; you
I stagger in:--but this new governor
Think, and die.
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
both parts, thou borest thy ass on thy back o'er
politic? am I subtle? am I a Machiavel? Shall I
That reason wonder may diminish,
'Sblood!--
And 'twixt the green sea and the azured vault
The breath no sooner left his father's body,
One is too poor, too weak for my revenge.
Lavinia, wert thou thus surprised, sweet girl,
And witch sweet ladies with my words and looks.
They say all lovers swear more performance than they
It is not for you: I have heard it over,
ANTIPHOLUS
Is my lord well, that he doth speak so wide?
That deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pronounced
And no.
But he's an arrant knave.
as good go a mile on his errand.
Face not me: thou hast braved many men; brave not
And, brother York, thy acts in Ireland,
Which they have given to beggars.
Will't please you hear me?
To the Tribunes
Not pay thee.
For thee, O Imogen, even for whom my life
Exit
Thou shalt not bail them: see thou follow me.
Right noble Burgundy,
Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
And with advantage means to pay thy love:
What fit is this, good lady?
To prison with her: and away with him.
Nor thou, nor these, confederates in the deed
Please it your majesty, this is the man
And credulous to false prints.
No barricado for a belly; know't;
I have them ready.
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus with a rope's-end
Confound and swallow navigation up;
Will the king come, that I may breathe my last
words are a very fantastical banquet, just so many
Of this discourse we more will hear anon.
where his codpiece seems as massy as his club?
Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
That talk'd of her, have talk'd amiss of her:
Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
The jury, passing on the prisoner's life,
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage:
how much he is unworthy so good a lady.
Many and hearty thankings to you both.
Discover where thy mistress is at once,
Tongue and brain not; either both or nothing;
I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
[Singing]
Beseech you, sir, be merry; you have cause,
And much too little of that good I saw
But first I'll do my errand. The good queen,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
to. Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence; he
The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost
And Anne my wife hath bid the world good night.
Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
The well-appointed king at Hampton pier
Love sought is good, but given unsought better.
Then at my lodging, an it like you:
When rather from our acts we them derive
Feed on her damask cheek: she pined in thought,
part, I must needs confess, I have received some
I love Aliena; say with her that she loves me;
Keep comfort to you; and this morning see
So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
Whom for the theft I wedded, stole these children
Some of us would lie low.
tell us, do you hear whether Antonio have had any
You cannot shun Yourself.
but a cheveril glove to a good wit: how quickly the
He, with two striplings-lads more like to run
Then let me see thy cloak:
As my ripe revenue and due by birth
And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous
Yes, and shall do till the pangs of death shake him:
It is a reeling world, indeed, my lord;
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
fire cannot melt out of me: I will die in it at the stake.
Has desperate want made!
If not, why, in a moment look to see
Casca, by your voice.
Marry, master schoolmaster, he that is likest to a hogshead.
Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
More stern and bloody than the Centaurs' feast.
As if allegiance in their bosoms sat,
That lady is not now living, or this gentleman's
Or shall we on, and not depend on you?
Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
Why should I, mother? Poor birds they are not set for.
Nay, lay thee down and roar;
Epistrophus and Cedius: Polyxenes is slain,
have heard it was ever his manner to do so.
I will: and therefore keep it. Rosaline,
And nothing pleaseth but rare accidents.
Patience unmoved! no marvel though she pause;
consent to die this day, that's certain.
Thou know'st how willingly I would effect
Exit
So much they spur their expedition.
chamberlain; for thou variest no more from picking
Here is no drink! Hark, Marcus, what she says;
Nips youth i' the head and follies doth emmew
Not like the fruit of such a goodly tree.
Lady, vouchsafe to listen what I say.
Armed, brother!
We are all undone, unless
o'er, should undo a man? Some say the bee stings:
My heart and hands thou hast at once subdued.
Died he not in his bed? where should he die?
Exit
Her infinite variety: other women cloy
My herald is return'd.
I would give it every foot to have this face;
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
death's-bed--Got deliver to a joyful resurrections!
Pardon the frankness of my mirth, if I answer you
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Out of the mind.
From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy,
Go put on thy defences.
Which you might from relation likewise reap,
Of base insinuating flattery
Come, guard the door without; let him not pass,
Some book there is that she desires to see.
Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less
You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
the peace.
With one appearing hair, that will not follow
And scout 'em and flout 'em
And since her time are colliers counted bright.
Enter RICHARD and SOMERSET to fight. SOMERSET is killed
O, God save ye!
I will have this: whose was it?
One part of Aquitaine is bound to us,
is turned out of all towns and cities for a
Why, such is love's transgression.
Always a villain's office or a fool's.
sunken, which you have not, an unquestionable
contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
I'll bear your logs the while: pray, give me that;
Indeed, he hath an excellent good name.
Straight marry her: to this her mother's plot
As loud as thine rattle the welkin's ear
This 'tis to be married! this 'tis to have linen
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
Tending to Caesar's glories; which Mark Antony,
It seems you know not, then, so much as we:
A fiend, a fury, pitiless and rough;
To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:
When as the enemy hath been ten to one:
Where senators shall mingle tears with smiles,
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
'And more wealth than faults.'
We had like to have had our two noses snapped off
her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all
Briefly thyself remember: the sword is out
Good Brabantio,
Hang off, thou cat, thou burr! vile thing, let loose,
And, like as there were husbandry in war,
ANTIPHOLUS
Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile; and I gave
Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love
If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
pack, a conspiracy against me: now shall the devil
Expect Saint Martin's summer, halcyon days,
with him! better shame than murder.
Than wishest should be undone.' Hie thee hither,
And all good men of this ungovern'd isle.
What impossible matter will he make easy next?
Since doubling things go ill often hurts more
Sir, sometimes, when he is not Antony,
O most profane coxcomb!
troubled with a rheum;
Whose mother was her painting, hath betray'd him:
A piece of work that will make sick men whole.
Nay, we must use expostulation kindly,
Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods?
Peace, ye fat-guts! lie down; lay thine ear close
Injurious Margaret!
How long shall I be patient? ah, how long
Cowardly knight! ill fortune follow thee!
Though bearing misery, I desire my life
In which so many smiling Romans bathed,
Then am I king'd again: and by and by
When I am known aright, you shall not grieve
Enter LAUNCE, leading a dog
Of author's pen or actor's voice, but suited
To CAMILLO
As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
This house, these servants and this same myself
[Aside to MENAS]  Forbear me till anon.
Gave any tragic instance of our harm:
Vain Thurio, whom my very soul abhors.
Seven earls, twelve barons and twenty reverend bishops,
Hail to thee, lady! and the grace of heaven,
A man of sovereign parts he is esteem'd;
Is the Duke of Exeter safe?
I never yet was valiant: for this business,
Hold little faith, though thou hast too much fear.
Go, bear Patroclus' body to Achilles;
So 'tis: this comes off well and excellent.
Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal,
For one that scorn'd at me, now scorn'd of me;
And do it with all thy heart.
I read in's looks
He does: he did appoint so.
A braving war.
Inconstancy falls off ere it begins.
That every stride he makes upon my land
John Falstaff have committed disparagements unto
As are of better person than myself,
Marcus, for thy sake and thy brother's here,
know your answer?
Than twenty silly ducking observants
An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen's--
I think your lordship is not ignorant
knave's pate.
To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to,
Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.
Let your study
Cried, 'Via! we will do't, come what will come;'
The sun will set before I shall discharge
How now, my son!
SCENE II. The country near Dunsinane.
Now puts the drowsy and neglected act
Fall like amazing thunder on the casque
He lies before me: dost thou understand me?
You are welcome hither.
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast:
I am glad at heart
And take upon command what help we have
monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.
Thou wast within a ken: O Jove! I think
But half an hour!
Then is my sovereign slain?
My daughter shall be Henry's, if he please.
And not unluckily against the bias.
Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded
there are certain condolements, certain vails. I
Come in, woman!
It were a shame to let this land by lease;
Where hast thou been preserved? where lived? how found
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
The lands and waters 'twixt your throne and his
Madame, came nothing else along with that?
Here comes fair Mistress Anne.
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
No longer staying but to give the mother
That task our thoughts, concerning us and France.
That I may make his lordship understand
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
call ladies.
divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
Then give me leave to go.
Nature's: Fortune reigns in gifts of the world,
By holy Mary, Butts, there's knavery:
To gratulate the gentle princes there.
The nature of our seats and make the rabble
as pigeons bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.
I' the eyes of heaven and to you; I mean,
I shall say so to him.
Did it to help thee to a better husband.
Exit Citizen
Not much commendation to them.
When Biondello comes, he waits on thee;
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
Hang her, witch!
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
O, let us yet be merciful.
I have been seeking you this hour, my lord:
Appear there for a man. Speak not against it:
Dexterity so obeying appetite
Your right depends not on his life or death.
Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit.
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, Lords, Officers, and Attendants
I humbly pray them to admit the excuse
This is the excellent foppery of the world, that,
That shall demonstrate these quick blows of Fortune's
With which he yoketh your rebellious necks,
it quickly; I'll call Sir Toby the whilst.
Since lowly feigning was call'd compliment:
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that
And since you could not be my son-in-law,
will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deniest
well-favoured and he speaks very shrewishly; one
As words could make up vows: and, my good lord,
[Giving a paper]
Thou hast said well; for some of you there present
How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featured,
Of murderous lechers: and in the mature time
In Cleopatra's sails their nests: the augurers
And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
The truth being known,
comforting therein, that when old robes are worn
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
that beggar Posthumus, thou canst not, in the
Let her have your voices.
If she did know me one. Away with her!
Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs:
Let me hear no more.
Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
By Sinel's death I know I am thane of Glamis;
The southern wind
To give her the avaunt! it is a pity
You have obtain'd it.
And therefore law shall scorn him further trial
To assist my simpleness.
In faith, for little England
So is my horse, Octavius; and for that
She's the worse for all this.
But to torment you with my bitter tongue!
called before us. Away with her to prison! Go to;
Is he won yet?
I have the letter here; yes, here it is.
Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented
Is thither gone, to crave the French king's sister
wits and bearing too? A pox o' your bottle!
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
you'll bear me a bang for that, I fear. Proceed; directly.
You must away to-night.
If any in Vienna be of worth
Quickly tell me so mush.
O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, CLARENCE, WARWICK,  SOMERSET, HENRY OF RICHMOND, OXFORD, MONTAGUE, and Lieutenant of the Tower
The king, sir,--
His regiment lies half a mile at least
Look where he comes.
You need not fear, lady, the having any of these
Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils,
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard
With golden promises; that, were his heart
Of Salisbury, who can report of him,
Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms,
All the pictures fairest lined
And you, fair sister.
Yet must we join with him and with the lords,
This done, he took the bride about the neck
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
Turning the widows' tears, the orphans' cries
What, art thou ashamed of me?
Did represent my master's blushing cheeks,
How easy is a bush supposed a bear!
ANTIPHOLUS
All guiltless, meet reproach. What, ho! my lord!
Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in it
Sir, I have not you by the hand.
Exeunt Senators
I cry you mercy: I mean the lord protector.
Begin it with weak straws: what trash is Rome,
My lord, in Athens.
Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
Sir, March is wasted fourteen days.
In them a wilder nature than the business
Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art
Be full expired. Thanks, uncle Winchester,
And she speaks for you stoutly: the Moor replies,
An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
Not you to me, but I betray'd by you:
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
SCENE III. A room in Sempronius' house.
I stay but for my guidon: to the field!
They call it Agincourt.
bowler: but, for Alisander,--alas, you see how
Enter DUKE and THURIO
That by the top doth take the mountain pine,
Of any king's in Europe. I do think
Then thou dwellest with daws too?
I'll pay your bounties; till then rest your debtor.
Than customary bounty can enforce you.
SCENE I. Antioch. A room in the palace.
How is't, my lord? how look you?
We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and
Dost thou hear, my honest friend?
Borne with the invisible and creeping wind,
If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne
Happier is he that has no friend to feed
unstanched wench.
When that which makes me bend makes the king bow,
In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown:
Their chiefest prospect murdering basilisks!
Had sent to me first, but for my mind's sake;
my eyes on thy picture. and my heart on thy every
This noble isle doth want her proper limbs;
How sharp the point of this remembrance is!--
not see thy hand.
And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France,
This is the tune of our catch, played by the picture
There was no link to colour Peter's hat,
wakes, fairs and bear-baitings.
Exit
You'll not bear a letter for me, you rogue! you
To give thee nightly visitation.
If it be so, then both depart to him;
When we are so unsecret to ourselves?
Upon mine honour, no.
O, a brave man!
There's no disjunction to be made, but by--
Your grief, the common grief of all the land.
Where with it I may appear a gentleman;
honest Antonio,--O that I had a title good enough
Good morrow.
There is differency between a grub and a butterfly;
I had a thing to say, but let it go:
In your own losses, if he stay in France.
poverty of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden
Prove false!
that obscene and preposterous event, that draweth
Harry le Roy.
And I will use him for my minstrelsy.
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
To obey in all your daughters' hard commands:
And will not let me welcome this good news.
He hath spoken true: the very dice obey him;
What earthy name to interrogatories
men.
Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth
O, gentlemen, help!
he dead, my Francisco? ha, bully! What says my
His blessed part to heaven, and slept in peace.
I am not bid for love; they flatter me:
In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry
name of Hero: she leans me out at her mistress'
To come! O, give me cord, or knife, or poison,
Upon my life, began her devilish practises:
Would more have strengthen'd this our commonwealth
Enter the Lords of the city
Daring the event to the teeth, are all in uproar,
Slander myself as false to Edward's bed;
By this reckoning he is more shrew than she.
I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
Infect the air! Twinn'd brothers of one womb,
Exit First Servant
Come, and take choice of all my library,
nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns.
said, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is
So graze as you find pasture.
But what said Warwick to these injuries?
And wherefore crave you combat? or with whom?
My daughter will I question how she loves you,
Exit Widow
Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
And happily repent.
Mistress, what cheer?
And fame in time to come canonize us;
If ever danger do environ thee,
Dat is good; by gar, with all my heart!
So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue,
He that keeps nor crust nor crum,
Yea, without stop, didst let thy heart consent,
And I:
Would make the great'st king double,--to be partner'd
O my poor father!
And good even to you, sir.
But Margaret, that is daughter to a king?
God bless thee, lady!
Look by and by to have thy sons with thee.
the brain awe a man from the career of his humour?
gallowses! I speak against my present profit, but
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony.
What's that? what's that?
But theirs is sweetened with the hope to have
Or, by Saint Paul, I'll strike thee to my foot,
Exit
But if I tell how these two did co-act,
Made me neglect my studies, lose my time,
confess, and be hanged for his labour;--first, to be
By debitor and creditor: this counter-caster,
My services to your lordship.
This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
How have I sworn!
But must my sons be slaughter'd in the streets,
And not in me: I am myself alone.
And show'd how well you love your prince and country:
To set him free from his captivity.
Your mother lives a witness to that vow--
Who loves the king and will embrace his pardon,
Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him;
Why, madam?
She giveth SATURNINUS a letter
When fearful wars point at me; her son gone,
Takest up the princess by that forced baseness
O, never
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
Which I had recommended to his use
Tender your own good fortune?
The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks,
This is Trebonius.
Know, if you kill me for my fault, I should
Eye well to you: your honour calls you hence;
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to
The day begins to break, and night is fled,
I do not know
But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
While Philip breathes.
To blot out me, and put his own son in.
See'st thou this sweet sight?
Am heir to my affection.
You all do know this mantle: I remember
To have one show worse than the king's and his company.
Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
But rather to beget more love in you:
station; here's no place for you; pray you, avoid: come.
Beyond all man's endeavours: my endeavours
Enter IAGO
SCENE II. Athens. QUINCE'S house.
ears grew to his tunes.
Your brother dies to-morrow; be content.
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
And strange it is,
Who neigh'd so high, that what I would have spoke
Wherein I am false I am honest; not true, to be true.
Day, yield me not thy light; nor, night, thy rest!
O blood-besotted Neapolitan,
Methought thy very gait did prophesy
Than to live still and write mine epitaph.
I should love thee but as a property.
To sue to live, I find I seek to die;
All together here
And you shall understand from me her mind.
Chirrah!
you are asked this question next, say 'a
Remain, remain thou here
Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight:
marvellous infection to the little page; and truly
SCENE II. The same.
'Twas neither Charles nor yet the duke I named,
for their sakes, more than the villanous inconstancy
Sir John Norbery, Sir Robert Waterton and Francis Quoint,
Pray you, give me my gown; or else keep it in your arms.
Pembroke, look to 't. Farewell, Chatillon.
Will you be bound for nothing? be mad, good master:
An old man.
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
'Tis honour with most lands to be at odds;
Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune
Is fall'n into thy ear! What false Italian,
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
With all my heart I'll sit and hear her sing:
He'll make a proper man: the best thing in him
By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;
therefore deny it not.
Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty,
I say my prayers aloud.
they hold up Adam's profession.
is mad, and sent into England.
Since, Jupiter, our son is good,
your hand to the buttery-bar and let it drink.
SONG.
It is, and wants but nomination.
RICHARD
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
The brother blindly shed the brother's blood,
Safely in harbour
The shape of Love's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity.
armour on my back, under the correction of bragging
and where they would be safe, they perish: then if
notorious bawd.
Of worthy Frenchmen: let higher Italy,--
well that prays for peace.
Which died in Geffrey, and the hand of time
Good my lord, be cured
Besides, Antonio certified the duke
His time doth take.
To take me to thee, as I was to him
Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Boldly 'not guilty;' the imposition clear'd
duke's brother.
Who was the model of thy father's life.
This, general joy.
And therefore, by His majesty I swear,
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
When she, poor hen, fond of no second brood,
I have.
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
And he, good prince, having all lost,
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
before would not abide looking on.
Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy;
Eighty odd years of sorrow have I seen,
Than all the princes in the land beside:
The youthful Phoebus:
What trumpet's that?
Come with my lady hither.
Witness the world, that I create thee here
But prove a chief offender in the same?
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
Some one way, some another. Do you know
Fairy king, attend, and mark:
Aaron, a thousand deaths
Cry, cry! Troy burns, or else let Helen go.
Behold the poor remains, alive and dead!
What will ensue hereof, there's none can tell;
But we that know what 'tis to fast and pray
Here, mighty Theseus.
How died my master, Strato?
complain of good breeding or comes of a very dull kindred.
The skull that bred them in the sepulchre.
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
But, my lord cardinal, and you, my Lord of Suffolk,
If thou wilt condescend to be my--
To her in haste; give her this jewel; say,
Lips, let sour words go by and language end:
I know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not:
They often feel a world of restless cares:
Enter Messenger
Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet.
Speak, Agrippa.
Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss
nothing neither.
My Dionyza, shall we rest us here,
Were it but told you, should be hooted at
When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray!
What, are my doors opposed against my passage?
If Helen then be wife to Sparta's king,
From this time forth I never will speak word.
Romans, of five and twenty valiant sons,
Ha! known!
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
hour is fixed; the match is made. Would any man
But most it is presumption in us when
Sweet sir, you honour me.
Who wouldst thou serve?
I'll undertake may see away their shilling
Ay, madam.
Thou shalt not be the worse for me: there's gold.
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
gives her folly motion and advantage: and now she's
you.
To the extreme edge of hazard.
Ay, boy.
Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house.
They have made worms' meat of me: I have it,
How do you mean, removing of him?
behind-door-work: they were warmer that got this
Saving in dialogue of compliment,
Ay, I praise God; and I have merited some love at
Even on my eaning time; but whether there
dozen of them two hours together. I have 'scaped by
Call ye the warlike Talbot, for his acts
Where you'll be loath to be: besides you know
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
Into our presence, where this heaven of beauty
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD
In private, then.
Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd,
In place of greater state. I'll meet you in the valleys.
Amen, sir: to my poor unworthy notice,
When you have spoken it, 'tis dead, and I am the
The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam,
you shall tell me where in the forest you live.
My strength can give you: then no more remains,
send her your page; no remedy.
Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old
With Ariadne and Antiopa?
Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more;
My love, my life my soul, fair Helena!
Therefore exhale.
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,
And fit for great employment, worthy lord.
Yes, good Griffith;
I come to cope.
Quench'd in the chaste beams of the watery moon,
I will owe thee an answer for that: and now forward
unworthy thinking: I dare you to this match: here's my ring.
him.
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my
Shall braying trumpets and loud churlish drums,
And even there, methinks, an angel spake:
Do not, my lord.
Give me my fan: what, minion! can ye not?
Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years; take this key,
And be all traitors that do so?
He was a wight of high renown,
The lady stirs.
It does: but time will--and so--
Lives not to act another. Be satisfied;
'tis I love; and yet 'tis a woman; but what woman, I
Thunder and lightning. Enter ARIEL, like a  harpy; claps his wings upon the table; and, with a quaint device, the banquet vanishes
Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact:
At any Syracusian marts and fairs;
I cannot, lord; I have important business,
her to her heart that she might no more be in danger
What watch the king keeps to maintain the peace,
Speak to me:
Thy son is banish'd upon good advice,
We'll not be nice: take hands. We will not dance.
By force took Dromio and my son from them
He fell down in the market-place, and foamed at
Yes, my lord, you see them perspectively, the cities
Or, having sworn too hard a keeping oath,
And of a lovely boy: the God of heaven
But if I were as wise as honest, then
To Milford-Haven.
O God's name, see the lists and all things fit:
That touches this my first-born son and heir!
And therefore homeward did they bend their course.
His remedies are tame i' the present peace
But by thy help to this distressed queen?
What we are sorry for ourselves in thee.
O, true-bred!
Why, Via! to London will we march amain,
Melodious birds sings madrigals;
Rather than life preserved with infamy.
Ay, forsooth; I have spoke with her and we have a
The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak:
on no water.
Gather the sequel by that went before.
Hath founded his good fortunes on your love,
And do upon mine altar sacrifice.
others how they should prepare.
My humble thanks. I had almost forgot
Hie you, Messala,
Even of yourself, lord cardinal.
Heaven bless us!
We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary
Exit
But what prevention?
But your discretions better can persuade
country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
And cannot now accept; to grace him only
now she sings in heaven.
Airy succeeders of intestate joys,
But there remains a scruple in that too;
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
With eggs, sir?
without asking my good will?
That eye that told you so look'd but a-squint.
Becomes a woman best; I'll take't upon me:
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any
Keep Hector company an hour or two.
Of this yet scarce-cold battle, at this instant
From every tree lop, bark, and part o' the timber;
May not extend so far as to the lady:
Which, to betray, dost, with thine angel's face,
All for my master's sake, Lucentio.
Thy grave-stone daily: make thine epitaph,
The wofull'st man that ever lived in Rome:
Make the sun dance. Hark you!
I here renounce him and return to Henry.
To unbuild the city and to lay all flat.
After that things are set in order here,
Which Somerset hath offer'd to my house:
Your highness shall repose you at the Tower:
fellows are perfect in the great commanders' names:
To pray for them that have done scathe to us.
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
What are you there? come in, and give some help.
Yes.
I fear the power of Percy is too weak
And these, who often drown'd could never die,
You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe
As if we should forget we had no hands,
And that thou mayst perceive how well I like it,
His sovereign's life to death and treachery.
As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march;
[Aside]  She was, indeed, a pedler's daughter, and
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
it one way, for the prince hath got your Hero.
And trust no agent; for beauty is a witch
They do, they do: and are apparell'd thus.
torches, walking with thee in the night betwixt
Yet, I think, we are not brought so low,
I told him of myself; which was as much
Exit a Servant
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
This is thy work: the object poisons sight;
turtles from jays.
That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts,
The house will be the quieter.
Hector would have them fall upon him thus:
Patroclus will give me any thing for the
O place and greatness! millions of false eyes
I would applaud thee to the very echo,
Enter VINCENTIO
Nay then, two treys, and if you grow so nice,
Or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword.
I did in time collect myself and thought
By my soul, a swain! a most simple clown!
Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king,
And ship from thence to Flanders.
And if thou dost not hide thee from the bear,
Devoutly dotes, dotes in idolatry,
Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
He hath a kind of honour sets him off,
Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool
For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
Publius, Publius, what hast thou done?
Serving of becks and jutting-out of bums!
not such a name. Page is an ass, a secure ass: he
Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
For truth's sake and his conscience; that his bones,
As those should do that had deserved his hate,
Indeed, good lady,
There was a pretty redness in his lip,
the Lent shall be as long again as it is; and thou
And left me in reputeless banishment,
Say that the king, which may command, entreats.
We mourn, France smiles; we lose, they daily get;
say him nay.
Must sanctify his reliques. Who comes here?
My most exquisite Sir Topas!
And the Athenian woman by his side:
Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
Very ready, sir.
Why masters, have your instruments been in Naples,
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
Will you follow, gentlemen? I beseech you, follow;
What simple thief brags of his own attaint?
he was a wise fellow, and had good discretion, that,
sanctuary; and people sin upon purpose, because they
And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS, disguised, with others as Fairies
Make use of thy salt hours: season the slaves
I would have her learn, my fair cousin, how
overjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it his
[Singing]
'Twas a rough night.
But yet you draw not iron, for my heart
First, what is your place?
And when your mistress hears thus much from you,
I' the shoulder and i' the left arm there will be
Can make good use of either: she being down,
Is not thy kindness subtle, covetous,
I would lose all, ay, sacrifice them all
You have in that forsworn the use of eyes
What is't your highness' pleasure I shall do at
As lively painted as the deed was done.
She should have bought her dignities so dear.
Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!
DON
And, for I know your reverend ages love
Why, foolish boy, the king is left behind,
And weigh thee down to ruin, shame, and death!
Take the fool away.
So could I, faith, boy, to have the next wish after,
The crown, usurp'd, disgraced his kingly glory.
It shall not wind with such a deep indent,
Than how?
O, if thou be'st the same AEgeon, speak,
Enter Priest
Then lead the way, good father; and heavens so shine,
That I desire to hear her speak again,
But yield me to the veriest hind that shall
Your hand, my Perdita: so turtles pair,
Nay, that's most fix'd.
Did they this Harry. Now in London place him;
Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
If non to bless us and the land withal,
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
better in your wits than a fool.
Come, boy, and go with me: thy sight is young,
yet, to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for
From weary wars against the barbarous Goths;
auricular assurance have your satisfaction; and
Transform me then, and to your power I'll yield.
a sorrow than have it.
Fan you into despair! Have the power still
hither: let it be thy lint service; go.
Now sit we close about this taper here,
A fearful battle render'd you in music:
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,
Wherefore to Dover, sir?
To part the queen's proud kindred from the king.
No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood could not do it.
Full of vexation come I, with complaint
[To the Commons, entering]  Sirs, stand apart;
As thou art to thyself:
Yes, troth, and troth; you would not be a queen?
Nay, but hark you, Francis: for the sugar thou
Who have we here?
There was a time when all the body's members
Amen.
For in this rapture I shall surely speak
For that I do suspect the lusty Moor
You do not give the cheer: the feast is sold
That he did range the town to seek me out.
Of this man to be vex'd?
Ay, sir.
No, nor nowhere else but in your brain.
Than common sleep of all these five the sense.
An you call him a-down-a.
Take that, thou likeness of this railer here.
Well demanded, wench:
As good!
assistance therein.
[Aside]  If his wit had been like him that broke it,
I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now
Grow from the king's acquaintance, by this carriage.
laughing to his grave, fifty-fold a cuckold! Good
From whose obedience I forbid my soul,
Where he should find you lions, finds you hares;
what's Achilles?
take it for your pains.
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
Yes, indeed, does he.
head-pieces.
On the sudden,
I left him almost speechless; and broke out
And so will I and write home for it straight.
How now, Lavinia! Marcus, what means this?
Oft have I seen the haughty cardinal,
yet, a barful strife!
The sun's a thief, and with his great attraction
We will require her welcome.
Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty,
Pluck out his eyes.
No humble suitors press to speak for right,
So I heard you say.
But you have out-faced them all.
But wherefore waste I time to counsel thee,
To be exalted with the threatening clouds:
Do, then, dear heart; for heaven shall hear our prayers;
You know no more than others; but you frame
I cannot stay to hear these articles.
That makes us wretched by the death of thee,
And interchanged love-tokens with my child:
In such a loathed manner;
Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong,
Thou took'st a beggar; wouldst have made my throne
More truly now may this be verified;
Grossly grew captive to his honey words
And sometimes we are devils to ourselves,
The earth had not a hole to hide this deed.
Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
It was well done; and thou shalt sleep again;
Of dumps so dull and heavy;
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
The pleasing punishment that women bear,
Sure, the boy heard me: Brutus hath a suit
And, ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face,
Of all the voices that we have procured
In seeking to augment it, but still keep
As cherubins, all guilt: the madams too,
I'll bear them hence; but from their ashes shall be rear'd
He stays upon your will.
That mould up such a mighty piece as this is,
Thy father's court? for thou shalt hear that I,
Why then, thus it is:
But kept a reservation to be follow'd
The doctrine of ill-doing, nor dream'd
Will offer night-oblations to thee. Thaisa,
They that my trust must grow to, live not here:
I should not think it strange; for 'tis a physic
And since, methinks, I would not grow so fast,
His faults in him seem as the spots of heaven,
Prince Troilus: I will make a complimental assault
no more words.
Brimful of sorrow and dismay; but chiefly
Grates me: the sum.
heard a man of his place, gravity and learning, so
Hark!
Speak to them, noble Timon.
Re-enter LYSANDER
And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
Surely, sir,
Exeunt severally
De elbow, madame.
O that brave Caesar!
He will be the physician that should be the patient.
Exeunt Pirates with MARINA
Shall rust upon my weapon, till thy blood,
Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that
Exit ESCALUS
The ringleader and head of all this rout,
O heresy in fair, fit for these days!
That my youth suffer'd. My story being done,
thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's
Shall I bend low and in a bondman's key,
And here, with all good will, with all my heart,
Will piece up in himself.
He did entreat me, past all saying nay,
The woods are ruthless, dreadful, deaf, and dull;
Adventure to be banished myself:
To the king's party there's no going: newness
My ancestors did from the streets of Rome
Caesar, I go.
An thy mind stand to't, boy, steal away bravely.
To fine the faults whose fine stands in record,
Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes here?
Unmannerly intruder as thou art!
Too true; and bought his climbing very dear.
But me and mine: how happy art thou, then,
What thou art promised: yet do I fear thy nature;
another, his wife another; and, I think, there's one
That you may ruminate.
Farewell, farewell.
Hence, saucy eunuch; peace!
Nay, that's not next.--Hark! who is't that knocks?
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
They have au denied him.
God give you good morrow, master Parson.
danger where he was like to find fame. To a cruel
And after me, I know, the rout is coming.
for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee
Shall be extinct with age and endless night;
Say he be taken, rack'd and tortured,
This?
How if it come to thee again?
Speak, Rome's dear friend, as erst our ancestor,
A noble boy! Who would not do thee right?
Then was Venus like her mother, for her father is but grim.
What's her name?
your purses full of crowns; if you will not, tarry
And sooner dance upon a bloody pole
Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married
Where's our general?
is a year and a quarter old, come Philip and Jacob:
He never can meet more mischance than come
If either of you know any inward impediment why you
O, get thee from my sight;
'Tis in my head to do my master good:
Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me;
I thank you. Here comes the count.
In resolution to keep Helen still,
My birth-place hate I, and my love's upon
Enter BAPTISTA
Sit, cousin Percy; sit, good cousin Hotspur,
I myself reprehend his own person, for I am his
Their infants quarter'd with the hands of war;
Prithee, no more; cease; thou know'st
Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down:
Why, to put his head in; not to give it away to his
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word:
out says thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and
That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a
Convinced or supplied them, cannot choose
Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of
do, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish
Nor shall not, whilst 'tis in my custody.
EPILOGUE
Something in my behalf.
Jove bless thee, master Parson.
If this which he avouches does appear,
Ay, come:--O Jove!--do come:--I shall be plagued.
To eke it and to draw it out in length,
You have respected; stopp'd your ears against
Our fealty and Tenantius' right
Than to be butcher of an innocent child.
I think she has: certain it is I liked her,
I met in travel toward his warlike father!
Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew,
Seeing ARTHUR
Well, miscreant, I'll be there as soon as you;
To this effect, Achilles, have I moved you:
By this sun that shines,
So that, as clear as is the summer's sun.
for he's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman
We did, my lord, weeping and commenting
Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
We were to question further: but I now
Put on thee by my lord, thou ne'er shalt see
And the best quarrels, in the heat, are cursed
Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
the even of it.
Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon;
He doth intend she shall be England's queen.
Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er.
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,
After young Arthur, claim this land for mine;
Save you, sir.
After the slander of most stepmothers,
Ay, ay.
Was that it was, for not being such a smile;
This is strange.
Thrust Talbot with a spear into the back,
the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How now,
Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body.
Exeunt
Two creatures heartily.
I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good
Come hither, fellow: which way hast thou been?
A prince of power.
He hath released him, Isabel, from the world:
that you shall think yourself bound to put it on
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations;
lodging and say he lies here or he lies there, were
'tis a sickness denying thee any thing; a death to
Would, each to other and all loves to both,
A far more glorious star thy soul will make
Ah, rogue!
Not to outsport discretion.
Enter MARK ANTONY and CANIDIUS
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
implore secrecy,--that the king would have me
Is to mistake again; though indirect,
MARK ANTONY dies
I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
The Bull, being gall'd, gave Aries such a knock
sister, for, look you, she is as white as a lily and
why, it must be requited. I hear how I am censured:
She is as forward of her breeding as
Methinks thou speak'st not well.
And there will I be with him. So, farewell.
'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him: if he
Our battles join'd, and both sides fiercely fought:
Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
this world. Here, Robin, an if I die, I give thee
[Aside]  And worse I may be yet: the worst is not
The king, your father, was reputed for
What shrill-voiced suppliant makes this eager cry?
And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown
Than from true evidence of good esteem
off.
Command upon me; to the which my duties
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night.
From my Redeemer to redeem me hence;
Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance of you.
And I will put that business in your bosoms,
The powers of us may serve so great a day
Good morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter,
Calls your worship?
their books,
There.
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
Of my word, I have written to effect;
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
man's son,' or rather an honest woman's son; for,
Enter two Citizens meeting
Go to, i' faith; an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck
I do beseech you, let it be his fault,
Will you be so good, scauld knave, as eat it?
Like Muscovites or Russians, as I guess.
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
Nor doth he of himself know them for aught
Made to the queen, to call back her appeal
That their hot blood may spin in English eyes,
Disdaining duty that to us belongs.
Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat
Who shall say me nay?
It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
To every purpose! O thou touch of hearts!
I can see yet without spectacles and I see no such
of this malapert blood from you.
The medicine of our house, how shall we do?
Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not?
Exeunt KING LEAR and CORDELIA, guarded
They're here with me already, whispering, rounding
The icy precepts of respect, but follow'd
I beseech your graces both to pardon me;
Than one of these same metre ballad-mongers;
And mine, a hundred and forty.
Due to the Moor my lord.
When such bad dealings must be seen in thought.
Thou sayest true, hostess; and he slanders thee most grossly.
Give up thy staff: Henry will to himself
To furnish him with all appertinents
Is utterly bereft you; all is lost.
No, not the duke's.
Sleeps
Most valour, spoke not for them: the accusation
SPRING.
Why, hath your principal made known unto you who I am?
Why, then thou art an executioner.
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
'Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay.
I would they were in Tiber! What the vengeance!
And for I know she taketh most delight
I thank my beauty, I am fair that shoot,
Throws him his purse
Than die ere I hear more: strive, man, and speak.
upon Saint Tavy's day.
A dozen of them here have ta'en the sacrament,
out moonshine, find out moonshine.
She had disposed with Caesar, and that your rage
Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die:
How can the law forbid my tongue to curse?
That therefore such a writ be sued against you;
SCENE VI. Forres. The palace.
Pray heartily he be at palace.
[Aside]  All of her that is out of door most rich!
[Within]  Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
And confident from foreign purposes,
Loosing upon thee, in the name of justice,
Exit
To lay his gay comparisons apart,
And save poor me, the weaker.
Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,
I have the patience to endure it now.
No, if a Scot would save his soul, he shall not:
Enter Page
As ending anthem of my endless dolour.
My lord, in the base court he doth attend
Do this, and purchase us thy lasting friends.'
Impostors to true fear, would well become
Match not the high perfection of my loss:
And now it is about the very hour
March'd toward Saint Alban's to intercept the queen,
Antony yet.
they feared the death, they have borne life away;
As high as word, my deed shall match thy meed.
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Reignier, her father, to the king of France
You promised, when you parted with the king,
You need but plead your honourable privilege.
No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour;
Nothing, my lord.
That's most certain, and with you; next month with us.
Why, there then: thus I do escape the sorrow
And drop the liquor of it in her eyes.
traitor, let him appear by the third sound of the
And better used, would make her sainted spirit
The sun begins to gild the western sky;
understandings for thy cases and the numbers of the
I doubt not but with honour to redress;
From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
Where is the queen?
Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight
Alas, poor fool, how have they baffled thee!
well-behaved reproof to all uncomeliness, that I
SCENE II. London. An apartment of the Prince's.
Hast thou read truth?
Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
That I yet know not?
Look here upon thy brother Geffrey's face;
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
Ay, marry, now my soul hath elbow-room;
Till the injurious Romans did extort
Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.
I hope so.
Exeunt
Vouchsafe me a word; it does concern you near.
There might have been,
Farewell.
and so encounter.
Noting this penury, to myself I said
Suffolk, what remedy?
Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy
Ghost
Anon, anon, sir.
And, Launcelot, soon at supper shalt thou see
Enter a Messenger
Hath made thee hard in't. Why shouldst thou hate men?
Be not obdurate, open thy deaf ears.
their cassocks, lest they shake themselves to pieces.
I should leave grazing, were I of your flock,
thus. They will scarcely believe this without trial:
We speak in vain.
To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear;
Here comes Sir Toby halting; you shall hear more:
A green goose a goddess: pure, pure idolatry.
You kill'd her husband, and for that vile fault
Stephano, two Neapolitans 'scaped!
I am thankful to you; and I'll go along
Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon;
Be not so rash; take ransom, let him live.
In arms as sound as when I woo'd, in heart
This is the old man still.
Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
Much less to take occasion from their mouths
And though she be but little, she is fierce.
And while I pause, serve in your harmony.
Not wagging his sweet head; and yet as rough,
I thank you, sir.
In summer's drought I'll drop upon thee still;
Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
Who answer'd him, they came from Buckingham.
For many good and great deserts to Rome:
That names me traitor, villain-like he lies:
Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you.
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Ye cannot reason almost with a man
Keep in your bosom: yet remain assured
RICHARD
Sleeps
if you hold your life at any price, betake you to
Of his bright passage to the occident.
What, are you both pleased?
Familiar as his garter: that, when he speaks,
That rage in savage sensuality.
Kill'd her, for whom my tears have made me blind.
Forget your oath to us at Doncaster;
A word of this. What, ho! within! come forth!
Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
The one and other Diomed embraces.
Be thou so too; and so break off your talk,
I am about, let them depart.
Takes a sword, and runs at him behind
I know you are now, sir, a gentleman born.
The Duke of Suffolk?
I am not a day of season,
the mortal Venus, the heart-blood of beauty, love's
Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land
'Tis thought, my lord, that you took bribes of France,
And, through the cranks and offices of man,
Like a kind host, the Dauphin and his powers:
That if about this hour he make his way
O Cassius, Brutus gave the word too early;
Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
The more my fault
O, was she so? I must
With all his trim belonging; and from this time,
Whom the blind waves and surges have devour'd.
That holds this present question in the court?
Was not that Hector?
My lords, if not for any parts in him--
None of these rogues and cowards
exceeding heavy.
I never thought it possible or likely;
I'll put in bail, my liege.
Not knowing what they fear, but full of fear:
To be revenged on him.
Myself disgraced, and the nobility
'What an if you do?'
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
One on 's father's moods.
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
This jewel holds his building on my arm:
and vouchsafed ear.
Would men observingly distil it out.
I pray you, do not fall in love with me,
Free from these slanders and this open shame!
To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes,
Exit
My royal nephew, and your name Capucius.
And so shall starve with feeding. Come, let's go:
Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
And tarry with him till I turn again.
Gone, sir: farewell.
Which I have sumptuously re-edified:
O, bind him, bind him! let him not come near me.
I had it of him: pardon me, Bassanio;
me. Wenches, I'll buy for you both. Pedlar, let's
France being ours, we'll bend it to our awe,
SCENE II. The same. The DUKE's palace.
but an islander, that hath lately suffered by a
Freely, good father.
out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:
I would correct him.
O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
Nor by a hired knife; but that self hand,
With a proud heart he wore his humble weeds.
and undo a great deal of honoured! Servilius, now,
Do as I bid thee: there's no more to say,
Exit GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM following
Not that I love you not.
Not all these, laid in bed majestical,
With labour; then by-peeping in an eye
When from thy shore the tempest beat us back,
And shall these hands, so lately purged of blood,
Or that we women had men's privilege
time; he put it the third time by: and still as he
One thing or other: when thou didst not, savage,
Jove sometimes went disguised, and why not I?
Brother, farewell.
I must be patient till the heavens look
Is not my lord seen yet?
As this world goes, to pass for honest.
This man is better than the man he slew,
Now fills thy sleep with perturbations
For, by my soul, were there worse end than death,
Why, she that bears the bow.
Flourish
Then would come some matter from him; I see none now.
Go with me to the king: 'tis wonderful
You shall be welcome, madam, to my court.
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
I follow, mine host, I follow. Good even and
Exit Worcester
Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
But in thy fortunes am unlearn'd and strange.
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
That which long process could not arbitrate:
Of my nation! What ish my nation? Ish a villain,
You do me wrong to take me out o' the grave:
Exeunt
Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her;
The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
Speak your griefs softly: I do know you well.
Throng'd to!
Shall I never see a bachelor of three-score again?
What is the time o' the day?
To make a virtue of necessity
We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
Hath put himself in arms: the adverse winds,
The chronicles of my doing, let me say
So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off,
Then did they imitate that which I composed to my
You are too swift, sir, to say so:
Where is she?
But heaven hath a hand in these events,
I fear we should have seen decipher'd there
O my fair warrior!
Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle cozen'd
Pray, sir, be patient.
Your brother did employ my father much,--
Out of my sight!
Ay, that's the theme.
Then to the point.
In faith, I will, la; never trust me else.
You were not bid to speak.
What mean'st thou, Suffolk; tell me, what are these?
I then did feel full sick, and yet not well,--
An aged princess; many days shall see her,
absent,--and there shall appear such seeming truth
And that unaptness made your minister,
But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
and to be on foot at an hour's warning.
other men? Do so, I have gold for thee.
If I stand here, I saw him.
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
What's this for?
turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a
This done, see that you take no longer days,
For fly he could not, if he would have fled;
To weed my vice and let his grow!
O, farewell, honest soldier:
Report the feature of Octavia, her years,
And, when I spy advantage, claim the crown,
With half the bulk o' the world play'd as I pleased,
The soldier's virtue, rather makes choice of loss,
Unfought withal, but I will sell my dukedom,
you do it bravely.
What said she? nothing?
A city full; of tribunes, such as you,
period of my ambition: O this blessed hour!
At point to sink for food. But what is this?
Was in his countenance. You he bade
Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace
Doth weep to see his grandsire's heaviness.
Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with
Of golden sovereignty; acquaint the princess
Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you:
Dear lord, you are full of fair words.
Why? For filling a bottle with a tundish. I would
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY; JAQUES behind
His soul thou canst not have; therefore be gone.
Pray heaven, the king may never find a heart
Exeunt DOGBERRY and VERGES
And you, Sir Walter Herbert, stay with me.
brother till you can derive from him better
By the time I linger here
God send her quickly!
By my life, she will do as I do.
The pardon that I late pronounced here.
Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing;
You that will follow me to this attempt,
If he arise, be mock'd and wonder'd at.
Enter a Lord
The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort,
strike sooner than speak, and speak sooner than
He for his father's sake so loves the prince,
Will you be cured of your infirmity?
Keep thou the napkin, and go boast of this:
O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it.
Go to; 'homo' is a common name to all men. Bid the
A seat for baseness.
This they have promised, to show your highness
Yes, by Saint Anne, do I. A good matter, surely:
Be not disturb'd with my infirmity:
the old man's daughter told us all.
Exeunt
what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present
In reason nothing.
in a sleep, and, giving him the lie, leaves him.
Possession of a subject.
Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,
Yours, if you talk of tails: and so farewell.
'Hic ibat Simois; hic est Sigeia tellus;
To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity.
old fat man; a tun of man is thy companion. Why
I beseech you, punish me not with your hard
His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Go to; 'tis well; away!
Here PROCULEIUS and two of the Guard ascend the  monument by a ladder placed against a window, and,  having descended, come behind CLEOPATRA. Some of the Guard unbar and open the gates
That reacheth from the restful English court
They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
Ay, as some days; but then no sun must shine.
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
By marrying her which I must reach unto.
change, would give an eye to boot.
And then depart to Paris to the king,
Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth,
And I will have you and that fault withal;
Which held three dearly as his soul's redemption,
A better guiding spirit! What needs these hands?
But, pray, how pass'd it?
Yes, there is remedy enough, my lord:
thou, Trot? Is the world as it was, man? Which is
But have been waked by his timorous dreams.
And in devotion spend my latter days,
What was his reason?
Bernardo has my place.
Neither have I money nor commodity
Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands
In manner and form following, sir; all those three:
sounds to themselves. Why, I have often wished
Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistakest me.
Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost,
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias,
If charnel-houses and our graves must send
When were you wont to use my sister thus?
die all slaves, than that Caesar were dead, to live
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
As you shall well be satisfied withal.
Very like; one of them
They'll be in fresher robes, or they will pluck
Exit
How now, my metal of India!
As Henry's late presaging prophecy
If I should say, I saw such islanders--
Alas, master, I am not able to stand alone:
To-day, as I came by, I called there;
Live, noble Helicane!
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs,
He lives that loves thee better than he could.
I am a woeful suitor to your honour,
What he hath lost noble Macbeth hath won.
Re-enter Nurse
And I am ready to put armour on.'
Good madam, pardon me!
No believing you, indeed, sir. But did you perceive
would think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.
Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir
Exit Clown
I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
Not so allured to feed.
And have you mercy too! I never did
Which twain have brought her to.
There is no tongue that moves, none, none i' the world,
Makes me with thy strength to communicate:
They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
To move wild laughter in the throat of death?
To take from thence all error with his might,
From off my hands, here in the view of men
me to the gaol.
Richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes,
A charitable wish and full of love.
This creature's no such thing.
Despise me, when I break this oath of mine.
ACT I
He apprehends a world of figures here,
For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
Let us not hang like roping icicles
For giving it to me. Well, peace be with you!
And scarr'd the moon with splinters: here I clip
How like you this wild counsel, mighty states?
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
Exit Gentlewoman
And so I pray you all to think yourselves.
It is no matter.
How silent is this town!--Ho! murder! murder!--
Sits here, like beauty's child, whom nature gat
Call our cares fears; which will in time
What say'st thou? majesty! I am but grace.
I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
Good Mistress Mary Accost,--
I fear me both are false.
For I the ballad will repeat,
To furnish Rome, and to prepare the ways
Hence grew the general wreck and massacre;
Fare ye well at once: my bosom is full of kindness,
Deposed he shall be, in despite of all.
Therefore, no more but this: Henry, your sovereign,
What conjuration and what mighty magic,
If so, I pray thee, breathe it in mine ear,
would open his lips when he put it into his mouth;
Take on himself the sovereignty thereof:
Of that wide gap, since it is in my power
Ay, sir; I'll call them to you.
Peace with his soul, heaven, if it be thy will!
Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
Drawing all things to it. I'll go in and weep,--
Courage and hope both teaching him the practise,
Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
As life were in't: I have supp'd full with horrors;
This thou shalt answer; I know thee, Roderigo.
And how stand you affected to his wish?
Good my lord,
In my just censure, in my true opinion!
Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member
We two, my lord,
And feebling such as stand not in their liking
With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
I did imagine what would be her refuge.
Which, out of use and staled by other men,
That only wounds by hearsay.
given, she's very well and wants nothing i', the
Doth that bode weeping?
We are wise girls to mock our lovers so.
That must we also. What it is, my Caius,
Yet indirection thereby grows direct,
He was a thing of blood, whose every motion
With such a brabbler.
Pace 'em not in their hands to make 'em gentle,
sit, sit. The gods require our thanks.
Prevail not, go and see: if you can bring
All turn'd to heresy? Away, away,
I am now of all humours that have showed themselves
And sundry blessings hang about his throne,
That, when he please again to be himself,
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
must come off; I'll sauce them. Come.
Of these Italian weeds and suit myself
Where is Malvolio?
A better witness back than words, which we,
love it, nor your affections and your appetites and
What kind of god art thou, that suffer'st more
And never, since the middle summer's spring,
Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers!
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF ARRAGON, PORTIA, and their trains
Even there where merchants most do congregate,
Help, masters, help! my master is mad.
My state was nothing, I should then have told you
Exeunt TITUS, LAVINIA, and Young LUCIUS
With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
To whom being going, almost spent with hunger,
By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Are ye advised? the
How do you both? you are manifest house-keepers.
Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,
the alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou for
SCENE I. Without the walls of Athens.
Still him in praise: and, being present both
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,
Proclaim our honours, lords, with trump and drum.
Ay, but she'll think that it is spoke in hate.
I do not know: friends all but now, even now,
Is a reserved honesty, and that
Is my lord angry?
Re-enter ANTIOCHUS
Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
Thou bleed'st apace.
For why my bowels cannot hide her woes,
It is the cause. Yet I'll not shed her blood;
que je suis le bon ecolier; j'ai gagne deux mots
Ay, and worn in the cap of a tooth-drawer.
fear the worst oft cures the worse.
And will with deeds requite thy gentleness:
And were they to be ruled, and not to rule,
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head
And breathe short-winded accents of new broils
Wantest thou eyes at trial, madam?
Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
Troth, sir, I can yield you none without words; and
SCENE III. The English camp.
I prithee, spare.
Where, my lord?
To have no screen between this part he play'd
Suivez-vous le grand capitaine.
Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
And drown consideration.
me the king's brother-in-law.
And could of men distinguish, her election
Welcome, Mark Antony.
What, fought you with them all?
From our faults, as faults from seeming, free!
and sepulchre. Hob, nob, is his word; give't or take't.
good clothes: there's no further necessity of
place appointed: I'll be judgement by mine host of
Stand fast;
That since have felt the vigour of his rage.
Re-enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM
Their mother's bed-chamber should not be safe
SCENE III. A room in FORD'S house.
To think upon the part of business which
Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you.
He had his part of it; let him pay.
Madam, and you, my mother, will you go
Speak to me what thou art.
commodity of good names were to be bought. An old
Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,
How now, ambitious Humphry! what means this?
Then never man was true.
Who will not change a raven for a dove?
Exeunt
My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
To do them good, I would sustain some harm.
And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.
Nay, nothing; all is said
Than twenty times the value of the sum
set out for London, a man of my lord cardinal's, by
transgressed against his valour; and my state that
Worthy his frowning at: their discipline,
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.
Enter MACDUFF and LENNOX
And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl
In Caesar's name pronounce I 'gainst thee: look
There is no hope that ever I will stay,
And there it is in writing, fairly drawn.
Exeunt POLIXENES, HERMIONE, and Attendants
Away, inhuman dog! unhallow'd slave!
You, that are thus so tender o'er his follies,
A pair of tribunes that have rack'd for Rome,
Now, whence come you?
The duke hath put on a religious life
incarnal; and, in my conscience, my conscience is
What cannot be, slight work.
thy tongue tang arguments of state; put thyself into
Madam,
Tarry, rash wanton: am not I thy lord?
The moon methinks looks with a watery eye;
If he be none of mine, my sanctity
warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
I think, or in any religion.
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
How do you, pretty lady?
Thou hast not loved.
He has our voices, sir.
good jests of him. Pray you, uncle, tell Mistress
Sir, how comes't that you
Tranio, you jest: but have you both forsworn me?
With heart-blood of the house of Lancaster;
I come to visit the afflicted spirits
Hold! the general speaks to you; hold, hold, for shame!
Have ever come too short of my desires,
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, reading a letter, LEPIDUS, and their Train
And so shall you, being beaten: do but start
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
her very description.
Hear me, my lord;
Exeunt
with thee.
I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other,
If you find a man there, he shall die a flea's death.
Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me
command you, in his highness' name, to repair to
And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
By light we lose light: your capacity
beef: ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear; for I
ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with
The king hath note of all that they intend,
[To PISANIO]            Hark thee, a word.
He's scarce awake: let him alone awhile.
The finch, the sparrow and the lark,
Where several worthies make one dignity,
Either from Venice, or some unhatch'd practise
Patroclus ta'en or slain, and Palamedes
We talk with goblins, owls and sprites:
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
As if thou never walk'st further than Finsbury.
Talk with a man out at a window! A proper saying!
As you threw caps up will he tumble down,
sworn upon't she never shrouded any but lazars.
qualified in; and the best of me is diligence.
Sir Proteus, what says Silvia to my suit?
Exit SHYLOCK
I answer is most false. The duke by law
Who is so full of grace, that it flows over
A napkin steeped in the harmless blood
Come, fellow-soldier, make thou proclamation.
I'll have it so. My steward!
Why, 'Jack, boy! ho! boy!' and as much news as
Yes, my good lord,
And will employ thee in some service presently.
Complotted and contrived in this land
The King of Naples and Jerusalem;
Hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites
If thou wert near a lewd interpreter!
You beg a single penny more: come, you shall ha't;
Thou liest.
me wherefore.
This, as you say, suggested
I found it not.
What shall I call thee when thou art a man?
For thus deluding you.
No marvel, my lord, though it affrighted you;
Romeo!
The title is affeer'd! Fare thee well, lord:
To see great Hector in his weeds of peace,
No more but so?
I am giddy; expectation whirls me round.
Will he woo her? ay, or I'll hang her.
Cassibelan: I do not say I am one; but I have a
Your wonder: but yet speak; first, you, my liege,
Good my friends,
Romeo's a dishclout to him: an eagle, madam,
In that he spake too far.
When came he to this town?
A model which heaven makes like to itself:
All mine own folly--the society,
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
Of any promise that hath pass'd from him.
These news I must confess are full of grief;
Your hearts of sorrow and your eyes of tears:
For, I protest, we are well fortified
Enter HERMIA and DEMETRIUS
Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd;
To hate young Valentine and love my friend.
Will he conduct you through the heart of France,
I have no great devotion to the deed;
Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive
Falls in a trance
'Tis he: slink by, and note him.
For where thou art, there is the world itself,
If that it be the work of any hand!
Joy'd are we that you are.
One of Lord Timon's men.
This nothing's more than matter.
Calling my officers about me, in my branched velvet
Who comes so fast in silence of the night?
Great reason; for 'past cure is still past care.'
What did you enact?
Cousin of Somerset, join you with me,
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich
O you kind gods,
Even to a full disgrace. Best of my flesh,
Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire
A pair of bleeding-hearts; thereon engrave
Since kings break faith upon commodity,
Yours; whom in constancy you think stands so safe.
No, my lord.
Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What!
First, mighty sovereign, let me know your mind,
I have many enemies in Orsino's court,
I'll follow those that even now fled hence,
darkness; alias, the devil.
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
And therefore red, that would avoid dispraise,
and water-rats, water-thieves and land-thieves, I
With that harsh, noble, simple nothing,
Wherein my death might yield her any profit,
Of my condition!
And question'dst every sail: if he should write
Look you what I have from the loving king.
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Lucilius' Servant	Flaminius! Sir, a word: pray, is my lord ready to
Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross,
That's due to all the villains past, in being,
The night to the owl and morn to the lark
When, for some trifling present, you have bid me
Unable to support this lump of clay,
Exeunt
every wink of an eye some new grace will be born:
Exit
laughing, as, ah, ha, he!
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
This love of theirs myself have often seen,
My grained ash an hundred times hath broke
Never lack'd gold and yet went never gay,
Meantime, God grants that we have need of you:
SCENE III. The lists at Coventry.
He is in heaven, where thou shalt never come.
Go after him; for he perhaps shall need
in mine office, awakens me with this unwonted
So are a number more.
And, whereas I was black and swart before,
But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
And venomous to thine eyes. My sometime general,
But, though thou art adjudged to the death
Stand farther. Come, proceed.
[Reads]
As air, as water, wind, or sandy earth,
Camest thou by this ill tidings? speak, thou wretch.
Much more for what I cannot do for you
O, that thou wert not, poor distressed soul!
He doth; for he did bid Antonius
His absolute 'shall'?
[To SICINIUS]  You shall stay too: I would I had the power
In terms of friendship with thine enemies.
I dare be sworn you were:
Now shame upon you, whether she does or no!
Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing
Lord Angelo is severe.
To be discover'd, that can do me good?
Who, holding in disdain the German women
Greater than great, great, great, great Pompey!
Quickly, quickly! is the buck-basket--
This feast of battle with mine adversary.
Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fight
And stalk in blood to our possession?
Run when you will, the story shall be changed:
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
in France, Before--
What she should shame to know herself
And to our sport.
But neither my good word nor princely favour:
What, are you merry, knights?
Thou mightst as well say I love to walk by the
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
One of her women lawyer to me, for
breakfast in the cheapest country under the cope,
If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner.
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
Shall be eternized in all age to come.
Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
Shall never see his pardon; for my state
That their negotiations all must slack,
That they combine not there.
I' the justice of compare! O villain Leonine!
'Tis catching hither, even to our camp.
And let me say, that never wept before,
And then?
He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one;
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder:
Her sober virtue, years and modesty,
Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too;
From such a noble rate; but my chief care
Rid me these villains from your companies:
'be opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants;
You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them
Your fresh-fair virgins and your flowering infants.
With that which he hath drunk to-night already,
The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
As fire drives out fire, so pity pity--
master's command, he must carry for a present to his lady.
With the arm'd rest, courtiers and beauteous freedom,
charge-house on the top of the mountain?
Present our services to a fine new prince
O, that a lady, of one man refused.
following it: but the great one that goes up the
This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven,
After the prompter, for our entrance:
They have a leader,
No, thou stand'st single, thou'rt not on him yet.
mightily misplaced, and the bountiful blind woman
As they smelt music: so I charm'd their ears
I that am cruel am yet merciful;
His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed,
And for alliance sake, declare the cause
And makes my labours pleasures: O, she is
What, think You we are Turks or infidels?
more of thy old body than I have done. Will they
My lord, you do discomfort all the host!
That I had any light from thee of this.
Than if you had made waste of all I have:
Let me read.
Cut my lace, Charmian, come;
any weather at all, and another storm brewing;
I'll take it from thee; and, good boy, good night.
That banish what they sue for; redeem thy brother
Are the knights ready to begin the triumph?
I am ashamed: does not the stone rebuke me
Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
You see how easily she may be surprised:
--Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved
I, madam? no, I have no reason for it;
Bound with triumphant garlands will I come
Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself;
And all their ministers attend on him.
My tears will choke me, if I ope my mouth.
Dissembling courtesy! How fine this tyrant
Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
While sense can keep it on. And, sweetest, fairest,
So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!
Grievingly I think,
Who now reprovest me for it,--
So is he now in execution
And curb this cruel devil of his will.
To hunt the panther and the hart with me,
To find the other forth, and by adventuring both
The state of your affection; for your passions
That God, the law, my honour and her love,
Besides, we'll cut the throats of those we have,
The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing.
And yet we hear not of our son-in-law.
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
On, officer, to prison till it come.
His perishing root with the increasing vine!
Your presence needs must puzzle Antony;
Exeunt all except the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, the Abbot of Westminster, and DUKE OF AUMERLE
With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,
bass-viol, in a case of leather; the man, sir,
In both your armies there is many a soul
Add to my clamours! let us pay betimes
Your fears are worse.
And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
that they live by your bare words.
List, list!
And bade me to dismiss you.
'Ad Jovem,' that's for you: here, 'Ad Apollinem:'
Made Britain India: every man that stood
Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint,
them ill-favouredly.
contemplation are you in?
Did he not moralize this spectacle?
Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
The hearing of my wife with your approach;
Who I do think is mine and love as mine,
And when I ope my lips let no dog bark!'
Then let confusion of one part confirm
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
Would they were blanks, rather than fill'd with me!
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
to do the prince my master good; which who knows how
By this we gather
Have at thee!
Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
But if I give my wife a handkerchief,--
And have their provender tied to their mouths
morning for France. The duke hath offered him
O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile,
It hath been taught us from the primal state,
I'll fight their legions o'er.
Of Pericles the careful search,
Fight: excursions. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and others
We have not made good preparation.
That bate and beat and will not be obedient.
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
The creatures that were mine, I say, or changed 'em,
I likewise hear that Valentine is dead.
Here if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love;
And make a conquest of unhappy me,
recantation.
We come not by the way of accusation,
When all the world is here to look on me?
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
For 'tis a damned slave.
I do forgive thee.
Two several times by night; at Sardis once,
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because
Exeunt
What observation madest thou in this case
I trust to take of truest Thisby sight.
Were our tears wanting to this funeral,
Be hung with Caesar's trophies. I'll about,
And sing it to her bones, sing it to-night:
Good.
Very vilely in the morning, when he is sober, and
When brewers mar their malt with water;
Caesar was mighty, bold, royal, and loving:
First, the fair reverence of your highness curbs me
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
It is concluded. Banquo, thy soul's flight,
purpose you undertake is dangerous; the friends you
In our own proper entrails.
see most bravely: I'll tell you them all by their
Women are made to bear, and so are you.
The sight of me is odious in their eyes;
Can alter a decree established:
I'll tell you more anon. Here's a noble feast toward.
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste,
In wrongful quarrel you have slain your son.
A nut, a cherry-stone;
such colours.
Didst undertake it? Why hast thou abused
When all our offices have been oppress'd
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
But there was more temperate fire under the pot of
Ay, if thou wilt say 'ay' to my request;
Who after Edward the Third's death reign'd as king;
Ah, were the Duke of Suffolk now alive,
I must rather give it the rein, for it runs against Hector.
John. Ah, poor heart! he is so shaked of a burning
Virtue and that part of philosophy
Fear her not, Lucius: somewhat doth she mean:
A year's age on me.
And in a tedious sampler sew'd her mind:
For his ungrateful country done the like.
Seeking the bubble reputation
Had I but served my God with half the zeal
No malice, sir; no more than well becomes
Hath a great scene: the image of the jest
To harder bosoms! Looking on the lines
It doth not fit me. Hold, sir, here's my purse.
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
By wicked Dionyza.
tailor made thee.
Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog, and that
Marry, so I mean, sweet Katharina, in thy bed:
Exeunt
Exit
We'll light upon some settled low content.
adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of
This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest,
Your oaths are pass'd; and now subscribe your names,
Let us from point to point this story know,
Why, for my king: tush, that's a wooden thing!
And of buxom valour, hath, by cruel fate,
As thus, to drop them still upon one place,
I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense,
I' faith, I'll eat nothing; I thank you as much as
Enter RODERIGO
And does he think so backwardly of me now,
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
An hypocrite, a virgin-violator;
This doth not so, for she divideth us:
Thus, while the vulture of sedition
This is the latest glory of thy praise
Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers
I hear it sing i' the wind: yond same black
A gallant prize? ha, cousin, is it not?
For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,
Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
And say you do't by our permission;
So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers;
But few,
Retain but privilege of a private man?
And you shall see 'tis purchased by the weight;
to an hundred mischiefs, and makes them leave me
Stephano!
Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night.
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles,
My lord, you know I love you.
And munch'd, and munch'd, and munch'd:--
can.
Think not on 't, sir.
In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
Thou wast born of woman
Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments,
I do perceive it hath offended you:
If to-morrow be a fair day, by eleven o'clock it will
Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again.
Of this make no conclusion, lest you say
Ay,
I'll draw the form and model of our battle,
elements of earth and water never appear in him, but
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
part, it was Greek to me. I could tell you more
Behold their quarter'd fires, have both their eyes
seven year.
And pale destruction meets thee in the face.
For his return.
Here, Lord Bassanio; swear to keep this ring.
Vouchsafe to speak my thanks and my obedience,
With their finest palate: and trust to me, Ulysses,
they do not give us the lie.
Thou hast a cruel nature and a bloody.
SCENE I. The same.
Was my beloved in Rome: yet thou behold'st!
The king he is hunting the deer; I am coursing
Stand, stand, and fight!
three pound, lift as much as his brother Hector.
I will be bright, and shine in pearl and gold,
Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha!
Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart
Go, sirrah, find him out. Come, Valentine.
I tell you, lords, you do but plot your deaths
Pray thee, marry us.
How you shall bid God 'ild us for your pains,
Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art,
I have long loved her, and, I protest to you,
You cannot but forbear to murder me:
a puppet or an aglet-baby; or an old trot with ne'er
Motion! Well; speak on. Where were you born?
Thanks for that:
Enter a Messenger
In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
Brought my too diligent ear: for several virtues
[Awaking]  When my cue comes, call me, and I will
The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat.
Go to thy lady's grave and call hers thence,
But yet, alas, stood I within his grace,
The weight we must convey with's will permit,
Even so as I mine own course have set down:
will ensconce your rags, your cat-a-mountain
For a short holding: if we lose the field,
If I were fair, Thisby, I were only thine.
With all her double vigour, art and nature,
But he's a tried and valiant soldier.
hath something embolden'd me to this unseasoned
In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
is like to be executed for robbing a church, one
High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service,
Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath
Titus, when wert thou wont to walk alone,
Am yet a courtier beggarly, nor could
Of good or bad unto the general;
I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it;
Heavy! belike it hath some burden then?
My gracious father, by your kingly leave,
Therefore take with thee my most heavy curse;
And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
The heavens give safety to your purposes!
Enter a second Messenger
Dost thou know her?
make it good.
The place of death and sorry execution,
I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman
Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo
Be it known, that we, the greatest, are misthought
For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
Hadst thou beheld--
Thou wouldst be fee'd, I see, to make me sport:
To FERDINAND
That I am forsworn for thee;
Be thou a prey unto the house of York,
From helmet to the spur all blood he was.
Keep it, I cannot eat it.
Please you to dispose yourselves.
Not one word more of the consumed time.
Come current for an accusation
Lodged in the abbey; where the reverend abbot,
Faith, I saw it not; but I felt it hot in her breath.
Nothing but fair is that which you inherit.
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
Bind him, I say.
It is with a good will; I can tell you, it will
At the prefixed hour of her waking,
I will bethink me: come again tomorrow.
Long live Lord Titus, my beloved brother,
His uncle Siward and the good Macduff:
You are so merciful: I see your end;
But that they left me 'midst my enemies.
Prester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great
The benefit of our levies, answering us
Though Marcius earned them not, and all his faults
Why, how now, daughter Katharina! in your dumps?
Exeunt Ghost and HAMLET
She shall be prized; but that you say 'be't so,'
Trebonius doth desire you to o'erread,
of our two cousins coming into London.
Contending with the fretful element:
Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how
give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favour,
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind;
This I must do, or know not what to do:
With all my heart. Some three or four of you
But fish not, with this melancholy bait,
For Gratiano never lets me speak.
At the hedge-corner, in the coldest fault?
Thus contumeliously should break the peace!
I am very glad to see you, signior
To fly the favours of so good a king;
Exit ROBIN
Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, the Soothsayer, and other  Roman Prisoners, guarded; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS behind, and IMOGEN
So near our public court as twenty miles,
In election for the Roman empery,
and a traitor.
According to the fashion and the time.
Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow,
Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ:
And in the taste confounds the appetite:
Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very
Enshrines thee in his heart and there erects
From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports. Let
Comest thou again for ransom?
You would be fingering them, to anger me.
Lucius, save the child,
The country gives me proof and precedent
Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.
Not to deny me, and to pardon me.
desire you to eat it.
That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
Ay, there's the villany.
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Wilt thou aspire to guide the heavenly car
And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird,
But then renew I could not, like the moon;
the issue?
I make a broken delivery of the business; but the
with beating; I am waked with it when I sleep;
To CAMILLO
He'll think anon it lives.
But Barnardine must die this afternoon:
Yet Edmund was beloved:
Like sacrifices, by their watchful fires
Rogues, hence, avaunt! vanish like hailstones, go;
They hither march amain, under conduct
The Third Knight passes over
Soldiers, have careful watch.
The mind of Talbot, as you did mistake
But shift away: there's warrant in that theft
I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance; and,
I am sorry, madam; for the news I bring
The thieves are all scatter'd and possess'd with fear
Exeunt, bearing the body of CORIOLANUS. A dead march sounded
That, Escalus.
And then we shall repent each drop of blood
Madam, I am not well.
Desires you to attach his son, who has--
Well said: that was laid on with a trowel.
And let me find a charter in your voice,
She should have stayed in France and starved
How long hath she been deformed?
Gives a letter
Though thou speak'st truth,
And far enough from court too.
I muse we met not with the Dauphin's grace,
Their savage eyes turn'd to a modest gaze
I am not mad; I know thee well enough:
Which swell'd so much that it did almost stretch
As the Antipodes are unto us,
How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
Alas, their love may be call'd appetite,
To know from whence we are.
SCENE II. Entrance of the Volscian camp before Rome.
Ay, madam, knowingly.
Those legs that brought me to a part of it!
The access of gentle visitors!
Where hadst thou it?
you are mine, I am yours: I give away myself for
Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
When in the world I lived, I was the world's
Like Amazons come tripping after drums,
Ah, when the means are gone that buy this praise,
Well, call forth, call forth.
It is almost morning,
Bear hence his body; I will help to bury it.
Condemn'd upon the act of fornication
And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love:
Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?
To you your father should be as a god;
Was ne'er distributed.
the parings.
Bring us to his cave:
True honest men being heard, like false Aeneas,
Therefore let's follow.
I have this day received a traitor's judgment,
'E la mi,' show pity, or I die.'
better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping!
Want similes, truth tired with iteration,
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
In braving arms against thy sovereign.
As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
Now, captain?
To be in love, where scorn is bought with groans;
Clock strikes
That is the least, Lucetta, of my fear:
A pestilence on him! now will he be mocking:
[Sings]
cause is, calling both the parties knaves. You are
youth of the city?
Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her.
You are loved, sir:
The gods of Greece protect you!
To PISANIO
To grace occasions, let it be our suit
Off with his son George's head!
But I had not so much of man in me,
[Beneath]  Swear.
I do assure thee, father, so it is.
In honourable terms: nay, he can sing
Of the beast Caliban and his confederates
dear knight?
Her very silence and her patience
But faithfulness and courage.
Exit
Catesby!
A greater power then we denies all this;
Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;
We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us;
If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antique,
Much more than death: do not say 'banishment.'
this a quarter of an hour.
I will kiss thy royal finger, and take leave. I am
Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
Let pale-faced fear keep with the mean-born man,
Briefly, sir.
That Cloten, whose love-suit hath been to me
I am in my condition
He dreams: I know they are in Rome together,
Warwick is chancellor and the lord of Calais;
The 'solus' in thy most mervailous face;
I kept were knaves, to serve in meat to villains.
Stabbing him
My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well:
This king unto him took a fere,
His confessor, who fed him every minute
To avert your liking a more worthier way
Hath all so long detain'd you from your wife,
Thou art the first knave that e'er madest a duke.
Let us complain to them what fools were here,
What is the reason that you use me thus?
You, sir! why, what are you?
Aloud
By need and accident. What train?
The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
This is a dreadful sentence.
Enter Prologue
Six of his labours you'ld have done, and saved
That beats upon the high shore of this world,
Peace, ho! the moon sleeps with Endymion
Virtuous and holy, be thou conqueror!
But to defend his person from night-foes?
How will their grudging stomachs be provoked
Apemantus, if it lay in thy power?
No, nor thy tailor, rascal,
To pray for her! Go to; it is a plague
Having so swift and excellent a wit
Ah, let me live in prison all my days;
another's dotage, and no such matter: that's the
I dare abide no longer.
Where did you find it, then?
drawn, monster, in good sooth!
Affliction till it do cry out itself
thyself execute, to make one among these wooers: if
Wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed!
Thou art the damned doorkeeper to every
Keep off aloof with worthless emulation.
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
Coupled in bonds of perpetuity,
'Tis very true, my grief lies all within;
The water of my land, find her disease,
A cousin-german to great Priam's seed;
Some wine, ho!
To a most noble judge, the king my master.
Ha!
For patience she will prove a second Grissel,
Sweet love,--
too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
That took away the match from Isabel,
Fell bravely and were slain,
And will he steal out of his wholesome bed,
by the king than by that red-tailed humble-bee I speak of.
I'll make the motion: stand here, make a good show
I have more cause.
Ay, and the targets, to put off the shame:
We have been up and down to seek him.
Behold, my Lord of Winchester, the duke
'Tis but thy name that is my enemy;
Well, well see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side
I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your
I gave this unto Julia.
But, my good lord, your grace's word shall serve,
Dives that lived in purple; for there he is in his
And danger, like an ague, subtly taints
shall after revive, be jointed to the old stock and
By that false woman, as this king by thee.
To quit this horrid act.
Fly, fly, my lord; there is no tarrying here.
Before, I loved thee as a brother, John;
sir.
This is a dear manikin to you, Sir Toby.
And as imagination bodies forth
Besides I say and will in battle prove,
Why, then, the champions are prepared, and stay
Was never mother had so dear a loss!
By staying there so long till all were lost.
shorn. what comes the wool to?
Ay, that left pap,
What, Hal! how now, mad wag! what a devil dost thou
That the bleak air, thy boisterous chamberlain,
I grant ye, upon instinct. Well, he is there too,
Launcelot,' or 'good Gobbo,' or good Launcelot
What compass will you wear your farthingale?'
I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil
Sweet, sweet, sweet poison for the age's tooth:
The lady speaks in Welsh
And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
A retreat sounded
When you are waspish.
Well, I am not fair; and therefore I pray the gods
My thoughts aim at a further matter; I
That this same paper brings you.
Is either slain or wounded dangerously;
O, what authority and show of truth
I am your butt, and I abide your shot.
This was your motive
Though our lives--
like to have: and, truly, when he dies, thou shalt
'Tis well thou'rt gone,
More than I have said, loving countrymen,
Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of
And, for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty,
If it please you to dine with us.
Whom Troy hath still denied: but this Antenor,
Come, citizens: 'zounds! I'll entreat no more.
But mark, poor knight,
Or my friends, if I should need 'em.
To keep him safely till his day of trial.
Now, infidel, I have you on the hip.
Heir to the crown; meaning indeed his house,
And, might we lay the old proverb to your charge,
that time the jealous rascally knave her husband
It is enough you know; and it is fit,
Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here.
I never was nor never will be false.
Refuse you for my judge; whom, yet once more,
Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
Proper deformity seems not in the fiend
and boy, thirty years.
As heart can think: there is not such a word
A little to disquantity your train;
him when Hector has knocked out his brains, I know
Make this his latest farewell to their souls.
And nightly, meadow-fairies, look you sing,
occasion to kiss. Very good orators, when they are
This maid will not serve your turn, sir.
Attend him here this morning.
But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
When the battle's lost and won.
Fairies, begone, and be all ways away.
In thy despite shall 'scape mortality.
thee; if she will not, I will never have her unless
And to his image, which methought did promise
That's me, I warrant you.
And pours down mischief. Austria's head lie there,
Their clearer reason. O good Gonzalo,
Applies an asp
A long flourish. They all cry 'Marcius! Marcius!'  cast up their caps and lances: COMINIUS and LARTIUS stand bare
Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia,
Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter.
That yet looks on me, or would know me Ariel,
'Tis very like.
Please it your grace lead on?
And pay thy life thou owest me for my horse!
'Fly pride,' says the peacock: mistress, that you know.
Knighted in field, slain manfully in arms,
And I am going to deliver them.
There is no reason but I shall be blind.
For by his rusty outside he appears
I must needs tell thee all. She hath directed
To honour them:
And, as she fled, her mantle she did fall,
Among the buzzing pleased multitude;
You have among you many a purchased slave,
Which you will wonder at.
He that shall live this day, and see old age,
And Lord Biron, I thank him, is my dear.
Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
And choke your good to come; for his possessions,
Most gracious sir,
In a neat's tongue dried and a maid not vendible.
Not portable, lie under this report:
man were porter of hell-gate, he should have
Upon no Christian soul but English Talbot.
against whom I know most faults.
I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock,
Come to great confusion:
Sit you down, father; rest you
Those are the raised father and his friends:
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
The bruit thereof will bring you many friends.
Of him it holds, stands young Plantagenet,
No, he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft
Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!'
As you have said, my lord.
Press me not, beseech you, so.
'Twere sure enough.
You swore to that, Biron, and to the rest.
Receive the ring again.
thee away, translate thy life into death, thy
I saw Othello's visage in his mind,
Punish my life for tainting of my love!
Or those that with the fineness of their souls
And then to dinner. You are passing welcome,
If I command him, follows my appointment:
Pare thy nails, dad;
And you did swear that oath at Doncaster,
'Tis not well mended so, it is but botch'd;
He tells us Arthur is deceased to-night.
And stick them in our will. Sixth part of each?
To him that worships thee!
And mount her pitch, whom thou in triumph long
Thou stickest a dagger in me: I shall never see my
Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.
Take leave of thy old master and inquire
I think it well, my lord.
Alack, what noise is this?
No? wilt thou not? I like thy armour well;
move
Am I so round with you as you with me,
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!
Our letters, madam, show'd much more than jest.
The phrase is to the matter.
Enter YORK
With feigning voice verses of feigning love,
Embowell'd of their doctrine, have left off
I'll hang you for going.
What, what, what!
Well worthy the best heir o' the world, should not
Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death?
Take her away; I do not like her now;
Be it his pleasure.
A beast, as thou art. The canker gnaw thy heart,
Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis,
On the enchafed flood.
I thank him.
Because thou art a woman, and disclaim'st
This yellow Iachimo, in an hour,--wast not?--
Would murder as it fell.
Good uncle, take you in this barbarous Moor,
The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet,
Exit
And then I'll set upon him.
Is privilege for thy departure hence:
Ay, and their colours, often borne in France,
Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen--your son
But that between us we can kill a fly
SCENE I. Britain. The garden of Cymbeline's palace.
will be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the
Go, be gone.
Believe me, I am not; I tell thee true.
offence, honesty! 'Tis strange.
Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?
Why, sir, who bade you call her?
speak what I know.
and I was like to be apprehended for the witch of
Were like a better way: those happy smilets,
Is, as in mockery, set: the spring, the summer,
Lives in men's eyes and will to ears and tongues
I will send far and near, that all the kingdom
little yellow beard, a Cain-coloured beard.
Exit
No:
I am a poor fellow, sir.
[Reads]  'which, as I remember, hight Costard,'--
Within a fortnight!
Their several virtues and effects.
Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,
By going to Achilles:
Divide me from your bosom.
By being so verbal: and learn now, for all,
There's Ulysses and old Nestor, whose wit was mouldy
There is no composition in these news
To frustrate both his oath and what beside
for all he be a Roman: and there be some of them
courtesy. I think scorn to sigh: methinks I should
Methinks, I could deal kingdoms to my friends,
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
Hark thee, Dardanius.
I think it cites us, brother, to the field,
signify to you that Fortune is blind; and she is
My boys,
Come, let's do so:
why then make sport at me; then let me be your jest;
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Than my fortunes to me.
Of her that threw it: noble she was, and thought
Father, to arms!
What, wilt thou flout me thus unto my face,
To show some reason, of no little force,
Is wander'd forth, in care to seek me out
Yea, but 'tis like that they will know us by our
You are too bitter to your countrywoman.
Hold, here's more gold for thee.
Alarum. Exeunt
Hath crawl'd into the favour of the king,
My Lord of Winchester, you are a little,
Foretold should be his last, full of repentance,
It cannot be but thou hast murder'd him;
Her doors lock'd?
For which the people stir: if you will pass
Here's his lordship now.
that I think you are in love: nay, by'r lady, I am
Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further:
Marina thus the brothel 'scapes, and chances
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at
Come on; tune: if you can penetrate her with your
Exit CHARMIAN
and of the season too, it shall appear.
O'er-prized all popular rate, in my false brother
Plantagenet! I come, Plantagenet!
What is your name?
And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath,
I come, to learn how you have dealt for him;
What's the matter, sir?
For when they hold 'em, you would swear directly
Exit
As far as toucheth my particular,
Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and I
To stain my cousin with: one doth not know
And something to be done immediately.
Stand to and do as we.
That I am free of your report, he knows
Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy
Why should a man, whose blood is warm within,
Which false hope lingers in extremity.
I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
SCENE II. Mytilene. A room in a brothel.
I trouble you.
Is she not apt?
Before me at this instant.
It is perchance that you yourself were saved.
The quaint musician, amorous Licio;
Slain by his servant, going to put out
Yet so my fancy may be satisfied,
O heavens, that they were living both in Naples,
His powerful mandate to you, 'Do this, or this;
'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters
And leave no memory of what it was!
Heaven forgive our sins
By whom shall I send this?--Company! stay.
To GONERIL
While you are thus employ'd, what resteth more,
Throwing down a glove
the one maintained by the owl, the other by the
Two may keep counsel when the third's away:
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
For he that steeps his safety in true blood
Peace have they made with him indeed, my lord.
I'll be sworn,
Drums and trumpets sound, with great shouts of the People
But if thou linger in my territories
desire the duke to use his good pleasure, and put
Shall I go fetch your night-gown?
I did so.
Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
The boy disdains me,
Nor I, nor any
Commends him to you.
admiration? Impart.
What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies,
Beseech you, sir, to spare me, till I may
amity shall prove the immediate author of their
You put me to forget a lady's manners,
A crack, madam.
Losing his verdure even in the prime
And never could maintain his part but in the force
Your horse stands ready at the park-corner.
Learn more than thou trowest,
Which I will over-pay and pay again
I am not mad; too well, too well I feel
Do you not jest?
That's our offer.
I never spent an hour's talk withal:
Has friendship such a faint and milky heart,
in peril of my life with the edge of a feather-bed;
'Ware pencils, ho! let me not die your debtor,
And she an eater of her mother's flesh,
use his master so, being perhaps, for aught I see,
Pushes him away
enough to speak, but to speak true.
Our ears vouchsafe it.
Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand
Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby,
Ay, that there was, mine host; one that hath taught
Give me some breath, some little pause, my lord
house, unless you undertake that with me which with
To make a stale of me amongst these mates?
The cod-piece that will house
And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
I am provided of a torch-bearer.
Why, there's more gold.
Happier the man, whom favourable stars
Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
One: tell.
ACT IV
not horribly afraid? doth not thy blood thrill at
subjection.
The sorrow that delivers us thus changed
be done; damns himself to do and dares better be
to be drowned and go without her.
left a purse alive in the whole army.
I could do more to do Antonius good,
This is well; he has made us his vlouting-stog. I
He speaks home, madam: You may relish him more in
This paper, thus seal'd up; and, I am sure,
And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen:
We are reconciled, and the first view shall kill
What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
He falls on the bed
Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
I to buy for our sheep-shearing feast? Three pound
My absence doth neglect no great designs,
For goodness dare not cheque thee: wear thou
To her, whose state is such that cannot choose
None should come at him.
Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty,
Thou told'st me they were stolen unto this wood;
But since your ladyship is not at leisure,
Ransomless here we set our prisoners free:
more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in
I find the people strangely fantasied;
Had the full view of, such a noise arose
My gracious lord, I'll tell him what you say.
Deputing Cassio in his government.
O, take her home, mistress, take her home: these
As we greet modern friends withal; and say,
In courtly company or at my beads,
I am most unhappy in the loss of it.
Were you there?
Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph
From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
Knows not that ever he knew me.
In honestest defence.
Will the faithful offer take
This fortress built by Nature for herself
But what my power might else exact, like one
Come hither, count; do you know these women?
You lie, ye rogue; 'tis going to the king's tavern.
consent with both that we may enjoy each other: it
for ten year together, you'll be glad to give out a
Come hither, little kinsman; hark, a word.
True;
For she did print your royal father off,
Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow,
Enter CURTIS
Hath publish'd and proclaim'd it openly:
Novi hominem tanquam te: his humour is lofty, his
A guiltless death I die.
And how she's like to be Lucentio's wife.
tabour, if thy tabour stand by the church.
Upon this spotted and inconstant man.
Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.
But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
A priest there offering to it his own heart.
ACT II
Only I yield to die:
Within this half-hour, hath received his sight;
When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
Good warrant of.
Detest them, curse them: yet 'tis greater skill
as I said, there is no moe such Caesars: other of
Now let me show a brother's love to thee.
thy Harry's company, banish not him thy Harry's
So long as we can say  'This is the worst.'
He must, and will
of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not
And top extremity.
And jealous Oberon would have the child
But accidents unpurposed. Draw, and come.
avouch the justice of your dealing?
No more of that: he did so.
At any time have recourse unto the princes.
Writes me: 'That man, how dearly ever parted,
Into some covert: take your sweetheart's hat
presence still smile, dear my sweet, I prithee.'
The queen, and princess.
I'll show thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee berries;
Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness may
Sola, sola! wo ha, ho! sola, sola!
O'er France and all her almost kingly dukedoms,
Not lack your company.
To make the sceptre his: these very words
To walk this way: I never do him wrong,
Above an hour, my lord.
Trumpets
And dimm'd mine eyes, that I can read no further.
It is a thing most precious. But for her,
Namely, some love that drew him oft from home.
'Jupiter!' quoth she, 'which of these hairs is Paris,
there is no evil angel but Love. Yet was Samson so
And we will all subscribe to thy advice:
Will it not be?
genitivo, hujus. Well, what is your accusative case?
I do detest false perjured Proteus.
To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?
Yonder comes a poet and a painter: the plague of
I have cursed them without cause.
We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
To say you're welcome were superfluous.
Well, sir, the poor distressed Lear's i' the town;
This precious stone set in the silver sea,
Again; and bring me word how 'tis with her.
Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the
Why look you strange on me? you know me well.
And wear it for an honour in thy cap
picture, she says, that you wot of: Master Ford,
Aside
Enter DIONYZA and LEONINE
I do repent me; read not my name there
We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy;
This was the noblest Roman of them all:
You see this fellow that is gone before;
Lucius, awake!
And I will help thee to prefer her too:
Alarum
It was the friar of orders grey,
That she may boast she hath beheld the man
When I come where he calls, then he is gone.
My good Camillo,
Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush
And wound her honour with this diffidence.
You are always my good friend; if your will pass,
myself poorer, that I might come nearer to you. We
We would not seek a battle, as we are;
An if my hand be out, then belike your hand is in.
he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.
Bestow your love and your affections
Enter Lion and Moonshine
That many things, having full reference
Ay, my good lord.
Forgetting any other home but this.
And therefore tell her I return great thanks,
prince his master will be here to-night.
If I might die within this hour, I have lived
His noble cousin is right welcome hither;
Most heavenly music!
With such a zealous laughter, so profound,
Kind Rome, that hast thus lovingly reserved
By a commission from the consistory,
As 'twere a knell unto our master's fortunes,
This challenge that the gallant Hector sends,
Stabbing MUTIUS
Of his demerits rob Cominius.
That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
We would have all such offenders so cut off: and we
end.
In all your business and necessities.
My gracious sovereign?
The ravish'd Helen, Menelaus' queen,
To give obedience where 'tis truly owed:
Join'd with a masker and a reveller!
And quite divorce his memory from his part.
Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
Shout. CHARLES is thrown
Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave.
'Twixt his stretch'd footing and the scaffoldage,--
What need a man care for a stock with a wench, when
That left the camp to sin in Lucrece' bed?
That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
were, too peregrinate, as I may call it.
If they set down before 's, for the remove
The devil it is that's thy master. Why dost thou
For as it would ill become me to be vain, indiscreet, or a fool,
Loves woman for, besides that hook of wiving,
A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall
EPILOGUE
Dies
We will meet; and there we may rehearse most
I stood not in the smile of heaven; who had
Who dares not stand his foe, I'll be his friend;
Take this fellow in, and send for
A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham,
Why, how now, my bawcock! how dost thou, chuck?
Good; and what of him?
I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some
Re-enter PAULINA
of mine: how worthy he is I will leave to appear
And presently, when you have drawn your number,
Exeunt
His very air, that I should call you brother,
Is whispering nothing?
Hear me a word;
Why, then the devil give him good of it!
Law cannot give my child his kingdom here,
nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. 'The
Wake when some vile thing is near.
them again, lest they consult about the giving up of
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and EROS, meeting
It appears not in this confession: there's not one
That it's had it head bit off by it young.
I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods,
Which thou takest from me. When thou camest first,
Get him to say his prayers, good Sir Toby, get him to pray.
Ha, ha, ha!
What, was I born to this, that my sad look
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees
'Tis sweating labour
I know none such, my lord.
No, misconceived! Joan of Arc hath been
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
And I will overhear their conference.
Of her own clime, complexion, and degree,
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
You bear a gentle mind, and heavenly blessings
The lion moved with pity did endure
For other service first: toward Ephesus
I am ashamed. O heavens! what have I done?
So soon did lose his seat and all at once
How fares my gracious lord?
tongues: therefore follow me, and I direct you how
A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanac; find
Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
Go, gentleman, every man unto his charge
No word to save thee.
Bushy, what news?
My tears gainsay; for every word I speak,
Sir, the people
God give your graces both
In Whitsun pastorals: sure this robe of mine
Come, sir, I pray you, go.
master Vincentio! now we are undone and brought to nothing.
We will, in France, by God's grace, play a set
Will you bestow them friendly on Andronicus?
Mort du vinaigre! is not this Helen?
Exit SIR ANDREW
see her chamber-window entered, even the night
Does not become a man: 'tis much to blame.
Or put upon you what restraint and grievance
When ladies crave to be encounter'd with.
Exeunt severally
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
Mark what I say. Attend me where I wheel:
Enter PERICLES
Now, lords, take leave until we meet again,
Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions?
Or as the south to the septentrion.
Exit
Parle without, and answer within. Then a flourish.  Enter on the walls, KING RICHARD II, the BISHOP OF  CARLISLE, DUKE OF AUMERLE, SIR STEPHEN SCROOP, and EARL OF SALISBURY
They call false caterpillars, and intend their death.
look some linen for your head.
You shall, sir: did you not of late days hear
Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
Come, come, I know 'tis good for you.
Infused itself in thee; for thy desires
Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls,
Your scruple to the voice of Christendom:
Upon the daring huntsman that has gall'd him;
And I for no woman.
Ay, but their sense is shut.
Since I heard thence; these are the words: I think
I sent your message; who return'd her thanks
Why old men fool and children calculate,
Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet
What is that?
Fillip the stars; then let the mutinous winds
How honourable and how kindly we
been grievously peaten as an old 'oman: methinks
Or I'll be buried in the king's highway,
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
Unto the commons whom thou hast misled;
Exit AEdile
Ascend, fair queen, Pantheon. Lords, accompany
More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear,
Master Shallow, you have yourself been a great
with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood
Have theirs, themselves and what is theirs, in compt,
Are these your herd?
Lords, give us leave; the Prince of Wales and I
How far you satisfied me.
My prisoners in your majesty's behalf.
First, all you peers of Greece, go to my tent;
Exit Provost. ISABELLA comes forward
I have.
Exit
And leaving so his service, follow you,
Do not you meddle; let me deal in this.
Exit MISTRESS QUICKLY
So sovereignly being honourable.
Thou didst receive the holy sacrament,
Thanks, gentlemen, to all; all have done well.
Of their own choice: one's Junius Brutus,
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
I know not thy mistress; out on thy mistress!'
shall be married to-morrow:
Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia.
but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her into
that I utterly deny. If sack and sugar be a fault,
And all my pains is sorted to no proof.
the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is
For that he dares us to't.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  I fear her not, unless she
it is well allied: but it is impossible to extirp
I am gone for ever.
He knew his man.
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
Marry, and did, sir; namely, no time to recover hair
But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.
The great Achilles, whom opinion crowns
And Shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was
ruff and sing; ask questions and sing; pick his
It is the woman's part: be it lying, note it,
Do pelt so fast at one another's pate
And, after, meet you sooner than you would.
Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
husband, Master Brook, dwelling in a continual
To be seduced by thy flattery,
Importunes personal conference with his grace:
To feed my innocent people.
Demetrius loves your fair: O happy fair!
High emperor, upon my feeble knee
His insolence draws folly from my lips;
Both young and old, one with another, Ford;
To throw my sceptre at the injurious gods;
If thou hatest curses,
Of these exactions, yet the king our master--
Enter AUFIDIUS and his Lieutenant
I know from whence this same device proceeds:
Then she's a merry Greek indeed.
Exit
The worthy Leonatus is in safety
Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome;
And lack not to lose still: thus, Indian-like,
according to the scrip.
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
Well, I conceive.
Come, let's have her aboard suddenly.
Hover through the fog and filthy air.
Choose your own company, and command what cost
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
Where and what time your majesty shall please.
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
day's journey.
Fetch hither the swain: he must carry me a letter.
To PERICLES
This is no mortal business, nor no sound
To her decrepit, sick and bedrid father:
Did you perceive
Bless you, sir!
Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,
No, we detest such vile base practises.
Our parents and us twain,
Our tongues and sorrows do sound deep
I think him so because I think him so.
And wish he had not so accused her,
Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in:
Who knows not he is dead! who knows he is?
For there I'll ship them all for Ireland.
Arm me, audacity, from head to foot!
That hold their honours in a wary distance,
Come, let us to the castle.
Demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
How full of valour did he bear himself
By east, west, north, and south, I spread my
Give him a statue with his ancestors.
Besides the thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
They are all perceived without ye.
He after honour hunts, I after love:
loss at sea or no?
As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate,
As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
My lord, I see you're moved.
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, DIOMEDES, NESTOR, AJAX, MENELAUS, and CALCHAS
Peace, my lord; hear, hear--
And thou most reverend for thy stretch'd-out life
As Dian bade: whereto being bound,
Besides, I'll make a present recompense.
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
She adds, moreover, that you should put your lord
How comes it that the subtle Queen of Goths
but thee; and thou deservest it.
Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth.
Nor tackle, sail, nor mast; the very rats
They are all fire and every one doth shine,
Arm'd, my lord.
As birds do, mother.
The long-grown wounds of my intemperance:
The wisest prince that there had reign'd by many
Your daughter and her cousin much commend
And, for unfelt imagination,
I wish I could be made so many men,
Alexas did revolt; and went to Jewry on
I thank your grace; the gift hath made me happy.
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down,
Where I may have fruition of her love.
How do you, Desdemona?
Not a word.
I must inform you of a dismal fight
Setting endeavour in continual motion;
He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself
In drops of crimson blood.
What you do
Rise, prithee, rise.
Sit, sir, I will recount it to you:
Yea, twice the sum: if that will not suffice,
It is: and yours too, Isidore?
Wherefore?
What should I say to you? Should I not say
No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is
If I would sell my horse, and buy twenty more
A fixed figure for the time of scorn
Of all exploits since first I follow'd arms,
Like one of two contending in a prize,
you and pray with you.
Come to what is important in't: I forgive you the praise.
Enter Hostess and SLY
How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony's nephew?
For Cassius is aweary of the world;
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
No blame be to you, sir; for all was lost,
Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison, rather
That could not trace them!
Suffolk first died: and York, all haggled over,
And stand securely on their battlements,
To tell you once again that at my birth
Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you.
hope his honour will conceive the fairest of me,
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
Unto a lineal true-derived course.
ANTIPHOLUS
When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones:
O blessed breeding sun, draw from the earth
not, for the wealth of Athens, I had done't now.
Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land
So then it seems your most offenceful act
Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting,
As are companions noted and most known
But, gentle people, give me aim awhile,
My sober house. By Jacob's staff, I swear,
Bless thee, bully doctor!
Thou speak'st truth.
You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they
Help not all, yet do they ease the heart.
Exeunt LUCENTIO, BIANCA, and BIONDELLO
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
I mean not cuckold-mad;
There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news:
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed
Of our proceedings here: on the marketplace,
When you then were here,
Was he not held a learned man?
your brother how well I counterfeited. Heigh-ho!
Lies all within. Deliver me the key:
And use thou all the endeavour of a man
I shall be counsell'd.
The doors are open; and the surfeited grooms
Aside
By the suggestion of the queen's allies;
As I do trust I am not--then, dear uncle,
By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain;
Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick!
Why stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied,
without seeking find, and be embraced by a piece of
No, that were pity:
Upon his party: he, mistrusting them,
SCENE I. A street.
Nay, let's seek him:
In country footing.
That wished him on the barren mountains starve.
Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!
From time to time I have acquainted you
them and foot them too. A plague of all cowards!
Exit, borne off by his Attendants
Let it go naked, men may see't the better:
You have won a happy victory to Rome;
Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
Thy name in arms were now as great as mine!
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
And I'll be sworn 'tis true: travellers ne'er did
A woman of quick sense.
That others do--
and thou art to post after with oars. What's the
Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio?
affection the one with the other. I would fain have
Which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee,
Wherein thou seest me mask'd; for thy revenge
this place is too cold for hell. I'll devil-porter
Will I upon thy party wear this rose:
Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters;
But not every man patient after the noble temper of
Alarum. Retreat. Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, MESSALA, LUCILIUS, and the army
As I have spoken for you all my best
He is called Aunchient Pistol.
All my smooth body.
Why say you so? looks he not for supply?
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art:
And Cassio following him with determined sword,
And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
What makes your admiration?
Ay, cousin Slender, and 'Custalourum.
Witness this wretched stump, witness these crimson lines;
To make him an example. All hope is gone,
Enter GLOUCESTER, and EDGAR dressed like a peasant
Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
It shall be done; I will arraign them straight.
Did nearer float upon the swelling tide,
O sweet England!
There, Coriolanus.
Low alarums
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
Shall these enjoy our lands?  lie with our wives?
That thus hath made me weep?
tell thee so before, because I would not fall out
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,
Exit
without you; especially that of Cleopatra's, which
I thank thee, fellow; thou servest me, and I'll
And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you;
So forcing faults upon Hermione,
differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
my mistress' heart, and did the act of darkness with
As did the fatal brand Althaea burn'd
Follow, my lord, and I'll soon bring her back.
I could not for my heart deny it him.
Point to rich ends. This my mean task
Or else his head's assurance is but frail.
If I could shake off but one seven years
Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say?
But carries on the stream of his dispose
She was beloved, she loved; she is, and doth:
The ills we do, their ills instruct us so.
But most himself, if he could see his shame.
Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe:
And then it was when the unhappy king,
Among the crowd i' the Abbey; where a finger
being here and hath threatened to put me into
Bias and thwart, not answering the aim,
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
large cicatrices to show the people, when he shall
Upon that were my thoughts tiring, when we
Goes into the pulpit
Think'st thou it honourable for a noble man
I know not what the success will be, my lord; but
Yield, or thou diest.
You fight in justice: then, in God's name, lords,
Is dearly bought; 'tis mine and I will have it.
Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say
Enter an Egyptian
For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast
Ambitious Warwick, let thy betters speak.
Give me your hand. Art thou learned?
However God or fortune cast my lot,
Antipholus, thou camest from Corinth first?
What's his excuse?
Enter aloft SLY, with Attendants; some with apparel, others with basin and ewer and appurtenances; and Lord
What, were you banish'd thence?
Scatter'd by winds and high tempestuous gusts,
Exeunt. Flourish
For I have heard him say a thousand times
If you have told Diana's altar true,
To me a break-neck. Happy star, reign now!
To the way she's forced to.
For grief that they are past recovery:
And she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin.
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
I pray you stand good father to me now,
Enter CORIOLANUS
It lifted up its head and did address
But where he meant to ruin, pitiful:
You know it is the feast of Lupercal.
Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs
SCENE X. Kent. IDEN's garden.
You and you no cross shall part:
And be not easily won to our request:
say in the behalf of that Falstaff.
Why, sir, I know her not.
Nay, let us share thy thoughts, as thou dost ours.
Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song!
And for the proffer of my lord your master,
I have no ears to his request. The queen
thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time.
I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
So keen and greedy to confound a man:
May catch a wrench--would all were well--'tis pity;--
I have been sometimes there.
What sayst thou? did the Duke of York say he was
Propose the oath, my lord.
Speak on, sir;
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the Courtezan, and others
By that you love the dearest in this world,
Exit Attendant
Do you know me, sir? am I Dromio? am I your man?
Beaumont, Grandpre, Roussi, and Fauconberg,
Give me now leave to leave thee.
But will you hear? the king is my love sworn.
List his discourse of war, and you shall hear
Trumpet within
whilst he railed at me. 'Sfoot, I'll learn to
But his own wringing! What infinite heart's-ease
master, lose thy service, and, in losing thy
Re-enter GREMIO
other course you please, which the time shall more
rule of nature. To speak on the part of virginity,
Enter BENEDICK
But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs,
Then, in a friend, it is cold modesty.
The same upon your finger.
Impossible be strange attempts to those
How now, sirrah?
How well he's read, to reason against reading!
Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion
Thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer.
We'll have him. Sirs, a word.
the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
A murderous guilt shows not itself more soon
Exit
Thou bear'st my life off hence: let us avoid.
I cannot live out of her company.
Fie, brother! how the world is changed with you!
I never did her hurt in all my life:
wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue can tell.
Did flesh his puny sword in Frenchmen's blood!
Let's along.
Exeunt MONTANO and GRATIANO
My lord!
Exit
I mean, your voice,--for crowning of the king.
And if on earth he do not mean it, then
Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
Swords out, and tilting one at other's breast,
The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this:
in all companies! I would have, as one should say,
casement of my closet.
Thou want'st a rough pash and the shoots that I have,
And if it stand, as you yourself still do,
Prithee, tarry:
Had I sufficient skill to utter them,
Fair one, I think not so.
And you have found me; for accordingly
Rather directly fly.
god's gold,
How covert matters may be best disclosed,
And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,
as I said; but more than that, he loved her: for
Or whether, riding on the balls of mine,
And by him do my duties to the senate:
Madam?
Lady, will you walk about with your friend?
Yet AEolus would not be a murderer,
Confirm'd by mutual joinder of your hands,
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,
Go, girl; I cannot blame thee now to weep;
harm, save to his bed-clothes about him; but they
Ay, and you shall live in pleasure.
These were his very words.
My wife is slippery? If thou wilt confess,
Why, universal plodding poisons up
I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe.
Which, if convenience will not allow,
In her behalf that scorns your services.
Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show
There is a gentleman that serves the count
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
places stops the mouth of all find-faults; as I will
The Greeks upon advice did bury Ajax
Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius,
To tire your royalty.
Before Angiers well met, brave Austria.
My Lord of Suffolk, Buckingham, and York,
And had no welcomes home: but he returns,
While these visions did appear.
Exit
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
On Tuesday noon, or night; on Wednesday morn:
To offer up a weak poor innocent lamb
I paint him in the character. Mark what mercy his
I have no relish of them, but abound
From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France,
Flourish and march. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and soldiers
Lest unadvised you stain your swords with blood:
You felt than make't my boast.
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
No rescue? What, a prisoner? I am even
Though you can guess what temperance should be,
However it is spread in general name,
In complete glory she reveal'd herself;
With modest warrant.
Not now, not now.
Strike up the drums; and let the tongue of war
Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
That, if requiring fail, he will compel;
Touches us not with pity.
observance; engrossed opportunities to meet her;
I am disgraced, impeach'd and baffled here,
I pray thee, bear my former answer back:
The castle of Macduff I will surprise;
I understand a fury in your words.
Shall be when your first queen's again in breath;
To the pot, I warrant him.
thyself giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast
And say to all the world 'This was a man!'
Dies
Let it be so: and you, my noble prince,
his rapier.
How irksome is this music to my heart!
Within their chiefest temple I'll erect
If this letter move him not, his legs cannot:
With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
no more valour in that Poins than in a wild-duck.
arithmetic! Why the devil came you between us? I
And be received for the emperor's heir,
Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,
As I have heard my father speak himself,
And am I last that knows it? O, thou think'st
Exeunt
Anon.
I will from hence to-day.
They are polluted offerings, more abhorr'd
opening my lips and receiving the bad air.
Which smoked with bloody execution,
Enter a Messenger
Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth and a day,
Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away;
thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns,
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And think with wagging of your tongue to win me;
That's likewise part of my intelligence; but, I
And passion, having my best judgment collied,
O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say
Look, sir.
Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum,
wear his sting? In his tail.
So, look about you: know you any here?
heard in Genoa,--
I would have 'voided thee, but in mere spite,
Show me the very wound of this ill news:
Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
Do swarm upon him--from the western isles
determinations; which is, indeed, to return to their
BISHOP
At Eltham Place I told your majesty.
O monstrous treachery! can this be so,
O Gertrude, come away!
If they not thought the profits of my death
The great part of my comfort, gone; my queen
Will you hoist sail, sir? here lies your way.
And thou usurp'st my father's right and mine.
Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
My amen to't!
Thou subtle, perjured, false, disloyal man!
Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die:
How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio!
Your ear is good. Cassius, what night is this!
Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.
What am I, sir! nay, what are you, sir? O immortal
O! my fear interprets: what, is he dead?
To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.
To rescue my two brothers from their death:
Re-enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Beats him
Do in his name religiously demand
Upon thy feature; for my rage was blind,
but he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not.
Exit HORATIO
For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,
I am Revenge: sent from the infernal kingdom,
I'll tell him what you say, my lord.
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
and ladies too, they will not let me have all fool
She did, indeed.
Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
Peace, both, and hear me speak.
Saw you my lord?
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
The more shame for him that he sends it me;
When I have walked like a private man,
Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,
the honest men and hang up them.
Wert thou the Hector
In storm perpetual, could not move the gods
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE,  and soldiers; with QUEEN MARGARET, OXFORD, and SOMERSET, prisoners
May be put from her by society:
The winged vengeance overtake such children.
You do appear before them: if they shall chance,
'After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff
himself out of his five sentences.
steal cream.
I will none of your money.
Than misery itself would give; rewards
Varro's Servant	I speak not to thee.
Enter PAROLLES guarded, and First Soldier
O, all you gods! O pretty, pretty pledge!
Is he come back? Love, I am full of lead.
Then must the Jew be merciful.
Your daughter here the princes left for dead:
Of that occasion that shall bring it on.
It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
I'll bring the body presently.
Be it forbid, my lord!
Adding withal how blest this land would be
Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger,
Even at the base of Pompey's statua,
What dost thou know?
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
What says my brother?
There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd
O vain petitioner! beg a greater matter;
For I am loath to break our country's laws.
To bring, uncle?
Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.
a face as yours were.
her passion ends the play.
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
For locking me out of my doors by day.
Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself.
I could not personally deliver to her
And quaff carouses to our mistress' health,
Myself have heard a voice to call him so.
we'll have flesh for holidays, fish for
Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds
SCENE I. Orchard of Oliver's house.
Hearts of most hard temper
Are enter'd in the Roman territories,
expostulate with her, lest her body and beauty
What manner of man?
But she herself is hit lower: have I hit her now?
No, she shall not dismay me: I care not for that,
Why, there they are both, baked in that pie;
whole sex withal.
Sprawl'st thou? take that, to end thy agony.
Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd,
I shall deliver so. Thanks to your highness.
fifteen i' the litter: and you may know by my size
Is too much for a score,
A day in April never came so sweet,
He'll strike, and quickly too: he's dead and rotten.
say doubt; det, when he should pronounce debt,--d,
Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
I mean our princely father, Duke of York.
They sleep
Nay, pray you, sir,--
Took up a beggar's issue at my gates,
guests: thou shalt find me tractable to any honest
To take the basest and most poorest shape
Why doth the great Duke Humphrey knit his brows,
And made me almost yield upon my knees.
O heavens bless my girl! But, hark, what music?
I must go send some better messenger:
Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine,
Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.
signet is not strange to you.
If thou dost slander her and torture me,
Make thee a fortune from me.
That chides the banks of England, Scotland, Wales,
Will blow these sands, like Sibyl's leaves, abroad,
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
Is valiant, and dejected; and, by starts,
And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!'
done; at such and such a sconce, at such a breach,
He never was so womanish; the cause
Their force, their purposes; nay, I'll speak that
This star of England: Fortune made his sword;
Go thither; and, with unattainted eye,
Speak, Lavinia, what accursed hand
Excite the mortified man.
chain or no.
Health and glad tidings to your majesty!
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
Here comes a man; let's stay till he be past.
him, niece: look you how his sword is bloodied, and
The fourth turn'd on the toe, and down he fell.
Yet 'tis not madness. Where's Antonio, then?
And may, for aught thou know'st, affected be.
And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?
This is of purpose laid by some that hate me--
hid me in these woods and durst not peep out, for
am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Enter DUKE SOLINUS, AEGEON, Gaoler, Officers, and other Attendants
To Brecknock, while my fearful head is on!
Exeunt
you sent hither to praise me?
My lord, when shall we go to Cheapside and take up
Mark Antony,--
At Ravenspurgh.
Let me but bind it hard, within this hour
Jack, then am I no two-legged creature.
this courteous office, as to know of the knight what
And, in good time, here the lieutenant comes.
you please, that I can do strange things: I have,
Stand back; room; bear back.
I am a simple woman, much too weak
To Asher House, my Lord of Winchester's,
entertainment.
And, in reguerdon of that duty done,
ANTIPHOLUS
Thou hast a lady far more beautiful
O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!
limekilns i' the palm, incurable bone-ache, and the
Why, headstrong liberty is lash'd with woe.
When time is ripe, which will be suddenly,
They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou
Exeunt
but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
Put rancours in the vessel of my peace
He came to me and I deliver'd it.
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, a Captain, and others
'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest, 'girdling one another
O, did you so? And do you remember what you said of the duke?
[Reads]
Give ground, if you see him furious.
Sweet remembrancer!
Ah, villain, thou wilt betray me, and get a thousand
I'll give him reasons for't: hie thee, Malvolio.
I apt, and my saying pretty?
If thou livest, Pericles, thou hast a heart
O royal Caesar!
[Within]  My lord, is the lady ready?
Exeunt
Never fear that: if he be so resolved,
his great right to be so: Gerard de Narbon.
I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you,
His popular 'shall' against a graver bench
instruments which aided to expose the child were
The figo for thee, then!
To be thus is nothing;
Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn.
Raze out the written troubles of the brain
SCENE II. The Mart.
And so deliver, I am put to sea
To part from Rome; Caesar is sad; and Lepidus,
You have not patience; come.
I throw my warlike shield. Lay on, Macduff,
Now judge what cause had Titus to revenge
Juliet, the county stays.
This fellow here, Lord Timon, this thy creature,
Would you had hit it too!
Hath made a shameful conquest of itself.
Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee:
Present yourself, desire his service, tell him
game of tick-tack. I'll to her.
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but VERNON and BASSET
That which I gave you.
Shall be my surety; 'fore whose throne 'tis needful,
pox of the devil.'
despise one that is false, or as I despise one that
Where rude misgovern'd hands from windows' tops
My power? Alas, I doubt--
He has been known to commit outrages,
Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head,
Shame come to Romeo!
Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you.
To wash this blood off from my guilty hand:
Pardon me, Proteus: all I can is nothing
By thee Anjou and Maine were sold to France,
And her withholds from me and other more,
'Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim,
Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself,
To think so base a thought: it were too gross
Intents but merely thoughts.
You lean'd unto his sentence with what patience
Finding his usurpation most unjust,
Hath he not twit our sovereign lady here
To SELEUCUS
A man who for this three months hath not spoken
'Tis one Iago, ancient to the general.
To act in safety. There is none but he
Go hence in debt: and therefore, like a cipher,
How should he be made, then?
Caesar, 'tis his schoolmaster:
I will fly, like a dog, the heels o' the ass.
Music
For this revolt of thine, methinks, is like
And in his simple show he harbours treason.
I have the placing of the British crown.
My speculative and officed instruments,
burning in hell-fire?
In conclusion, I stand affected to her.
In the county of Gloucester, justice of peace and
God save your good worships! Marcius is coming
There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.
Does tire the ingener.
And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
I was too young that time to value her;
Then Lord have mercy on me!
compliment; I forgive thy duty; adieu.
Outlives encertain pomp, is crown'd before:
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
attending.
Senators,  and C	Weapons, weapons, weapons!
From sun to sun: there is my honour's pawn;
the right!
It must be by his death: and for my part,
that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their
Than hear say how I got them.
Exeunt
do you, man? the music likes you not.
blush and weep and thou must look pale and wonder.
But whither shall we then?
The inhospitable Cleon; but I am
[Within]  What ho, my liege! for God's sake,
What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer?
him.
Advantaging their loan with interest
would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard
When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops:
Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man.
Is often left unloved; we should have met you
Listening their fear, I could not say 'Amen,'
Where be my horses? speak well of them, varletto.
speech of insultment ended on his dead body, and
Do as I bid you, or you'll move me else.
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
Oh, poor Clarence!
What, what?
The vines of France and milk of Burgundy
art. Look you, who comes here?
Let me embrace thine age, whose honour cannot
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to
teeth in your service. God be with my old master!
With Somerset's and Buckingham's ambition;
I bleed inwardly for my lord.
This is the man that can, in aught you would,
And speaks not to himself but with a pride
Madam, your majesty is too much sad:
cannot tell how to term it.
Third trumpet
Worthy the note.
Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
physician to comment on your malady.
Approved so to your majesty, may plead
To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push
Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you,
Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores
And on set purpose let his armour rust
As may be holloa'd in thy treacherous ear
Dear almost as his life; which gratitude
My hand to thee; mine honour on my promise.
Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
These sovereign thrones, are all supplied, and fill'd
Is tight and yare and bravely rigg'd as when
Could not so mope.
These accusations and these grievous crimes
That for my surety will refuse the boys!
An if your wife be not a mad-woman,
That Bevis was believed.
Deliver what you will; I'll say 'tis so.
Which I so lively acted with my tears
That wore the imperial diadem of Rome;
Must keep aloof from strict arbitrement,
He must, he is, he cannot but be wise:
From whom my absence was not six months old
will, if you should refuse to accept him.
Besides, our hands are hard.
for't. What players are they?
Bound by my charity and my blest order,
The Lady Cressida.
door like a sheriff's post, and be the supporter to
That is too cold in thinking of it now.
And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
My resolution's placed, and I have nothing
Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
Abides in me; I say amen to all.
[Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
Your discontenting father strive to qualify
What's to be thought of him? does the rumour hold
What noise? what shriek is this?
She might ha' been a grandam ere she died:
An't please your majesty, a rascal that swaggered
Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see.
He shall not pass you. Twice have the trumpets sounded;
I now go toward him; therefore follow me
Dost thou, or dost thou not, heaven's curse
On which heaven rides, knit all the Greekish ears
At Rhodes, at Cyprus and on other grounds
Madam, he swore that he did hold me dear
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
Before a willing bondman; then I know
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
Good brother, come you hither;
Is of so flood-gate and o'erbearing nature
ones and millions.
Because thy flinty heart, more hard than they,
To try my fortune. By this scimitar
Most wise in general: tell me, if thou canst,
Than you should stoop unto a Frenchman's mercy.
points more than all the lawyers in Bohemia can
this condition, to be whipped at the high cross
I slew him not; but to my own disgrace
Thou reft'st me of my lands. Euriphile,
Go get thee hence, and find my dog again,
And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
By any in this presence, I desire
For emulation now, who shall be nearest,
I will kneel to him.
Say that you love me not, but say not so
Than a great queen, with this condition,
That, on mine honour, here I do protest.
PINDARUS stabs him
one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed, to be,
Should yet be hungry! Common mother, thou,
Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness
Why, we are still handling our ewes, and their
Did steal behind him as he lay along
thy five men, and if I do not leave you all as dead
Your passion draws ears hither.
The lords at Pomfret, when they rode from London,
His legs bestrid the ocean: his rear'd arm
But can you affection the 'oman? Let us command to
And cry 'Your will?' Have you no ears? I am
Well met, my lord; I am glad to see your honour.
Henry had none, but did usurp the place;
Fall, and cease!
Falstaff's being here; for I never saw him so gross
Let me see thine eyes: wink now: now open them:
In states unborn and accents yet unknown!
ensemble: de hand, de fingres, de nails, de arm, de
He has some reason, else he could not beg.
Your knees to me? to your corrected son?
one of our souls! He may have mercy upon mine; but
And, to add greater honours to his age
For now he firmly takes me for Revenge;
The skilful shepherd peel'd me certain wands,
Exit Sergeant
[Aside]  I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.
To counsel Cassio to this parallel course,
To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
the devil.
Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad.
Are idly bent on him that enters next,
Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
Must stead us all and me amongst the rest,
Your mistress shall be happy.
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband;
Would you, my lord, aught with the general?
Lead, lead.
You sleeping safe, they bring to you unrest;
dinner of friends.
time for all things.
The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
This is all:
If ever lady wrong'd her lord so much,
Yes;
My Alcibiades. With me? what is your will?
To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
himself aggrieved at this glove; that is all; but I
When he stands where I am and sees you there.
Alas, poor women! make us but believe,
I Pompey am, Pompey surnamed the Big--
To pardon me yet for a night or two,
Exeunt Attendants
They pass by strangely: they were used to bend
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss,
Of my behind-hand slackness. Welcome hither,
Shall witness I set forth as soon as you
Let's exchange charity.
He may mean more than we poor men do know:
And my appointments have in them a need
Not sensible of fire, remain'd unscorch'd.
From east, west, north and south: be it concluded,
But O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo,
Hath sometime loved! I take thy hand, this hand,
Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.
If a hart do lack a hind,
What, thou meanest an officer?
Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
And mountainous error be too highly heapt
Do one pluck down another and together
at his dog:
Without his top? The ruin speaks that sometime
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
Thus hath the candle singed the moth.
And shake the peace and safety of our throne.
Go thou with him; and when it is thy hap
Would I or not: tell him I'll none of it.
What does this mean, my lord?
Good uncle Marcus, see how swift she comes.
o' the song: would God would serve the world so all
I pray God he be not, I say.
Though, I confess, much like the character
For by my scouts I was advertised
Now, now: I have not winked since I saw these
But, ah, I will not! yet I love thee well;
What a plague means my niece, to take the death of
And all the honours that can fly from us
And all at once, once more a happy farewell.
If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
Some eight or ten.
Who sues to thee and cries 'God save the queen'?
Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
My life itself, and the best heart of it,
I am Saint Jaques' pilgrim, thither gone:
Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
Clarence, whom I, indeed, have laid in darkness,
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
As you are great, be pitifully good:
And when you would say something that is sad,
If thou use to beat me, I will begin at thy heel, and
I'll find some cunning practise out of hand,
Come, bring her away.
Even to Augustus' throne.
Almost at point to enter.
bed, give him promise of satisfaction. I will
But what said she?
That's strange.
A holy day shall this be kept hereafter:
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
Both you and I; for Romeo is exiled:
Nor doth he dedicate one jot of colour
Enter a Messenger
Ay, my lord: and fear
Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven,
Would have him punished. And now to our French causes:
But hold himself safe in his prisonment.
And we are for the dark.
With tears of innocency and terms of zeal,
Is he so young a man and so old a lifter?
fairly last night.
Sister, content you in my discontent.
Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you,
Prince Pericles,--
being, as he is, old Jack Falstaff, banish not him
Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
is damned.
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, PEMBROKE, ESSEX, SALISBURY, and others, with CHATILLON
For then I should not love thee, no, nor thou
He is a man, setting his fate aside,
Brave son, derived from honourable loins!
leave that I may bear my evils alone: it were a bad
To use our utmost  studies in your service.
That ever I should call thee castaway!
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
This fellow were a king for our wild faction!
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
slaughter'd,
The gods rebuke me, but it is tidings
Think I am dead and that even here thou takest,
Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek,
between France and him. Pray you, let's hit
Exeunt
She makes it strange; but she would be best pleased
Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn
He rises on the toe: that spirit of his
I took him for the plainest harmless creature
Why, if it please you, take it for your labour:
What talk you of debating? in few words,
Shall e'er have power upon thee.' Then fly,
Cressid is mine, tied with the bonds of heaven:
LAERTES wounds HAMLET; then in scuffling, they change rapiers, and HAMLET wounds LAERTES
Mark, I say, instantly; and carry it so
And to your shadow will I make true love.
proper cost and charges, without having any dowry.'
Doth miracle itself, loved before me.
They tell thee true.
Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight
prove a mutineer,--the next tree! The poor monster's
There's a good grandam, boy, that would blot thee.
I know that knave; hang him! one Parolles: a
And then take hands:
--said I well?--and thy name shall be Brook. It is
So my untruth had not provoked him to it,
How meanest thou? brawling in French?
That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
To see him any more,--cast your good counsels
Away with her! Poor soul,
ANTIPHOLUS
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
May to your wishes pleasure bring
Some subtilties o' the isle, that will not let you
Within there! Flaminius! Servilius!
SCENE III. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
And now I find it; therefore bind them sure,
If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch,
Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
Thou'rt damn'd as black--nay, nothing is so black;
Exit
game: ware horns, ho!
Who's there?
Sit laurel victory! and smooth success
Parcel the sum of my disgraces by
Four nights will quickly dream away the time;
and fight for bitten apples; that no audience, but
We'll burn the house of Brutus.
Will it consume me? let me see it, then.
Villain, thou know'st no law of God nor man:
The Earl of Warwick and the duke enforced me.
And of their feather many more proud birds,
Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest
Exeunt CAMBRIDGE, SCROOP and GREY, guarded
And liegemen to the Dane.
Though that my death were adjunct to my act,
Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise,
Can snore upon the flint, when resty sloth
Ah, in good sadness, is he; and talks of the basket
Giving to you no further personal power
house of her! Come on.
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
Exit
Toadstool, learn me the proclamation.
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
They told me, here, at dead time of the night,
And so say I.
For we will make for Ireland presently.
Thy child shall live, and I will see it nourish'd.
Great Troy is ours, and our sharp wars are ended.
Imagination of some great exploit
I would surrender it.
ACT V
But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth
And how was that ta'en up?
Where is thy head? where's that? Ay me!
Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!
She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
But learn my lessons as I please myself.
Shall follow in your conduct speedily.
No, do not.
Cleopatra,
As low as she would wish it.
me; I will neither be faced nor braved. I say unto
ANTIPHOLUS
Amen. Dear goddess, hear that prayer of the people!
Have letters from me to some friends that will
For the repealing of my banish'd brother?
We came to visit you, and purpose now
That hath to this maturity blown up
He's banish'd, and it shall be so.
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
Re-enter Widow, with HELENA
Excuse it not, for I am peremptory.
Sevenfold above itself; no gift to him,
How hard it is for women to keep counsel!
Let it be so: I do commit his youth
But is there any?
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue,
Kneel thou down Philip, but rise more great,
That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose
Why, why is this?
To call together all his state of war;
our assistants, at the king's command, and this most
His tears run down his beard, like winter's drops
Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes!
to keep my pack from fasting: they throng who
You'll mar it if you kiss it, stain your own
I cannot choose but laugh, to think how she tickled
Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
When you should bring the plaster.
Yet that which seems the wound to kill,
Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
The rebels are in Southwark; fly, my lord!
Then further, all dissembling set aside,
Yes, as an outlaw in a castle keeps
Go, Mistress Ford,
Exit LEPIDUS
Bloodstained with these valiant combatants.
Force her hence.
This toil of ours should be a work of thine;
Not knowing them until we know their grave:
too was no good divinity. When the rain came to
Proved us unspeaking sots.
I'll strive, with troubled thoughts, to take a nap,
Exeunt
Hath caused his death: the which if wrongfully,
the same kind! This would make mercy swear and play
Which sleeps, and never palates more the dug,
Armed in proof, and led by shallow Richmond.
Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes,
But what from Rome?
What he will do graciously, I will thankfully receive.
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
That they shall think we are accomplished
There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his
To stubborn critics, apt, without a theme,
Use our commission in his utmost force.
If it would please him come and marry her!'
For how can I help them, and not myself?
Mine ear must pluck it thence.
Of these most brisk and giddy-paced times:
mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior
Who bow'd but in my stirrup, bend like his
Come to the pedlar;
That this same very day your enemies,
And in this kind hath our Cleon
By my head, here come the Capulets.
I know not yet.
Now, messenger, what letters or what news
Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten;
Yes, yes; he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a,
And being fap, sir, was, as they say, cashiered; and
The gods forbid!
amiss; and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of
Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
Such attribution should the Douglas have,
Who smirch'd thus and mired with infamy,
O my Antonio, I do know of these
Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye;
And at her heels a huge infectious troop
What, didst thou offer her this from me?
this starting.
Hast thou or word, or wit, or impudence,
Ring the alarum-bell! Blow, wind! come, wrack!
one. I come before to tell you. If you know
Which will require your answer, you must take
Herself the glory of a creditor,
Methinks, false hearts should never have sound legs,
'Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother.
pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come,
That might annoy my finger? 'tis so strange,
As in a title-page, your worth in arms,
O, come apace, dispatch! I partly feel thee.
Your father's wife did after wedlock bear him,
Hard-handed men that work in Athens here,
Welcome, my good Alexas. Did I, Charmian,
Look, how he laughs already!
Against my fire; and wast thou fain, poor father,
burden: do you sing it, and I'll dance it.
My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your majesty.
Rich in his father's honour, creeps apace,
Exit TALBOT. Alarum; retreat; flourish
he would cudgel you.
Let me bear another to his horse; for that's the more
Shall face to face be brought to Margaret,
But they do shake their heads, and I am here
O villain, that set this down among her vices! To
The like is on her arm.
I should be author to dishonour you!
With all good grace to grace a gentleman.
Where foxes, geese: you are no surer, no,
For all the rest is held at such a rate
Who is that, servant?
bow-string and the little hangman dare not shoot at
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
The news I have to tell your majesty
If with myself I hold intelligence
Yet here they shall not lie, for catching cold.
I'll leave her houses three or four as good,
Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,
Shall I tell you a lie? I do despise a liar as I do
Repair to the Capitol.
But may not be so credulous of cure,
and yielding.
SCENE XIV. The same. Another room.
Thee they may hurt.
The enemy more mighty than he seems:
A Roman now adopted happily,
world hath not a sweeter creature: she might lie by
Then to your offices and let me rest.
Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two French Lords, with Attendants
Are not words duly hallow'd, nor my wishes
Alas, I blame you not; for you are mortal,
So hath your highness; never king of England
Your lordship to accept.
Alarums. Enter KING RICHARD III
voice so that I will roar you as gently as any
O, 'twas the foulest deed to slay that babe,
And thou a kingdom; all of you allegiance:
Hang'd in the frowning wrinkle of her brow!
My holy sir, none better knows than you
And we must do it wisely.
Away, for your relief! and we will live
And I'll keep London with my soldiers.
What a loss our ladies
Before my God, I might not this believe
that; and for their bareness, I am sure they never
Whose influence is begot of that loose grace
Nay, Got's lords and his ladies! you must speak
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning
A lovely boy, stolen from an Indian king;
I'll tell ye more.
That I did never, no, nor never can,
Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray;
Let it be hid. Gratiano, keep the house,
to-night at my house; where I will desire thee to
Exit
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
EPILOGUE
In making question of my uttermost
That which I durst not speak; his present gift
And make the silken strings delight to kiss them,
me, so; 'tis a point of friendship.
When at your hands did I deserve this scorn?
Then, York, be still awhile, till time do serve:
Would curses kill, as doth the mandrake's groan,
possession of the pridge; but he is enforced to
would tell twenty.
Take this of me: Lucrece was not more chaste
Which flashes now a phoenix. Get you gone.
parting, as the procuring of mirth: you come in
That the magnifico is much beloved,
My horse to yours, no.
That made the air unwholesome, when you cast
The fits o' the season. I dare not speak
I am as ignorant in that as you
fat chuffs: I would your store were here! On,
You, brother mine, that entertain'd ambition,
To have it baned? What, are you answer'd yet?
The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones and all,
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES
We render you the tenth, to be ta'en forth,
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
Come, stretch thy chest and let thy eyes spout blood;
That works him strongly.
subject, if not before the king; which stopped our
Ay, but thou shalt not go.
Why look you so upon me?
Maliciously like poison: but I cannot
Open Thy gate of mercy, gracious God!
Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,
I should have been a sore one then.
Talk with respect and swear but now and then,
Were never orphans had so dear a loss!
That my integrity and truth to you
My best and freshest men; served his designments
Go therefore, tell thy master here I am;
Let not sloth dim your horrors new-begot:
And issue forth and bid them battle straight.
What, like a corse?
reason with them.
Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving,
You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me
Be to the prejudice of her present state,
They were suborn'd:
Then I, as one that am the tongue of these,
O, they are our friends; but one cup: I'll drink for
And set up Lancaster. Why, trow'st thou, Warwick,
Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
If not to heaven, then hand in hand to hell.
And though you think that all, as you have done,
With any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty
Upon the maiden virtue of the crown.
Exit from above
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
How tame, when men and women are alone,
To have you royally appointed as if
And 'tis no little reason bids us speed,
Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty:
And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
Should with his lion gait walk the whole world,
Exit
There, hold!
Let me ask you one thing:
Your heart is full of something that does take
Exit DENNY
Even from darkness.
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
a companion of the king's, who is intituled, nomi-
Which in the time of Henry named the Fifth
The king hath happily received, Macbeth,
He words me, girls, he words me, that I should not
On the poor souls for whom this hungry war
Now Lord be thanked for my good amends!
That I may dew it with my mournful tears;
O gentle lady,
It is most meet we arm us 'gainst the foe;
Who in this dull and long-continued truce
The Page whistles
Exeunt OTHELLO, LODOVICO, and Attendants
Whom from the flow of gall I name not but
Nor the soles of her shoe?
It would unclew me quite.
Does an irresolute purpose.
And, whiles I live, to account this world but hell,
Deliver up my title in the queen
Could I repair what she will wear in me,
Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;
Which holds but till thy news be uttered;
Hoping it was but an effect of humour,
Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
Jaques Chatillon, Rambures, Vaudemont,
Our landmen will stand up.
beyond credit,--
Because he would avoid such bitter taunts
grave-maker?
And thence to France shall we convey you safe,
Wear it myself. Follow, good cousin Warwick:
Enter GLOUCESTER
With all the applause and clamour of the host,
Be theme and hearing ever, was in this Britain
ACT III
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
She is beholding to thee, gentle youth.
Than answer my waked wrath!
If thy offences were upon record,
I may disjoin my hand, but not my faith.
Name it, fair cousin.
not.
I am dying, Egypt, dying:
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
Make forth; the generals would have some words.
To give a kingdom for a mirth; to sit
Nay, forward, old man; do not break off so;
'Tis Troilus' fault: come, come, to field with him.
And, that my love may appear plain and free,
O, sir, you are old.
See better, Lear; and let me still remain
I minded him how royal 'twas to pardon
Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.
As for another secret close intent,
Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass,
Give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell,
Of the most pious Edward with such grace
Even like thy chastity. O cursed slave!
Each under each. A cry more tuneable
To send such peevish tokens to a king.
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK and Lords
believing thee a vessel of too great a burthen. I
a-wooing, 'Priami,' is my man Tranio, 'regia,'
discourse, of great admittance, authentic in your
Forslow no longer, make we hence amain.
For tubs and baths; bring down rose-cheeked youth
One step I have advanced thee; if thou dost
First, to thy sacred state wish I all happiness.
My strong imagination sees a crown
Yet parted but the shadow with his hand.
To be call'd whore? would it not make one weep?
As you, my lord, or any Scot that this day lives:
Knock at my door, and tell me what he says.
But who comes with our brother Marcus here?
For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
Stay, I will lend thee money, borrow none.
Close by the battle, ditch'd, and wall'd with turf;
Deceive more slily than Ulysses could,
Is't possible?
That he have his. Call up some gentlemen.
Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
One of our order, to associate me,
Have scared thy husband from the use of wits.
With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits,
cast thy humble slough and appear fresh. Be
I beseech you, sir,
This oracle of comfort has so pleased me,
Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty
Let us be keen, and rather cut a little,
I hate him for he is a Christian,
It well appears: but tell me
Madam, please you peruse this letter.--
Here comes my messenger.
On his shoulder, and his; her face o' fire
Of the all-building law; and that there were
Before his legs be firm to bear his body.
When I shall gust it last. How came't, Camillo,
It was i' the offering!
Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault.
Sir, you speak nobly.
Exeunt
little more to say, sir, of his honesty: he has
When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
And put yourself under his shrowd,
Great cause to give great thanks.
O, I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell,
By our remembrances of days foregone,
Though the seas threaten, they are merciful;
The specialty of rule hath been neglected:
Well, my dread lord; so must I call you now.
In so unseeming to confess receipt
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
Yet have I gold flies from another coast;
Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts.
Exit
the request be fifty talents.
Make bold her bashful years with your experience;
honest knaveries.
This youth, how'er distress'd, appears he hath had
Beyond thought's compass; that former fabulous story,
Dissemble not your hatred, swear your love.
Without much fall of blood; whose guiltless drops
It comes in charity to thee: for all thy living
Help! help, ho! help! O lady, speak again!
he'll be made an example.
To suck, to suck, the very blood to suck!
canst thou? a red murrain o' thy jade's tricks!
And with a care, exempt themselves from fear;
The world and my great office will sometimes
Which weighs upon the heart?
That I have had of thee!
Caesar than you shall do to Brutus. The question of
Here's a knocking indeed! If a
Amongst your cloven army.
And have our bodies slaughtered by thy foes.
Tut, were it farther off, I'll pluck it down.
Do not think, gentlemen. I am drunk: this is my
'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise;' dismiss'd me
Such beastly shameless transformation,
The duke be here to-night? The better! best!
Men fear'd the French would prove perfidious,
Into your own hands, cardinal, by extortion;
Enter ANTONY
Unless thou couldst put on some other shape,
is't with you? What, man! defy the devil:
Of what hath come to pass: for when she saw--
And every day do honour to her grave:
thief thinks it little enough: so every true man's
To be a spokesman for Madam Silvia.
Be gladded in't by me: then follows, that
Within your house, to make mine eye the witness
Upon my life, then, you took the wrong.
Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue.
During which time he ne'er saw Syracusa:
I'll be with you, niece, by and by.
First 'Prentice	Here, Peter, I drink to thee: and be not afraid.
Into the market-place: there shall I try
Nor forward of revenge, though they much err'd:
And yet, good Humphrey, is the hour to come
he take leave, and presently after him.
To raise a present sum: therefore go forth;
True or false, it hath made thee earl of
Most truly limn'd and living in your face,
You were as flowers, now wither'd: even so
That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him?
the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be
With being nothing. Music do I hear?
She may, I think, bestow't on any man.
With his weak function. How am I then a villain
That dare as well answer a man indeed
favour with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
fool's bolt is soon shot.'
cloak, when honester men than thou go in their hose
Sir, much like
As thoughts do blow them, higher and higher.
Enter TITANIA and BOTTOM; PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH,  MUSTARDSEED, and other Fairies attending; OBERON behind unseen
Safely stowed.
Now do I see thee, ha! have at thee, Hector!
Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
My Lord Melun, let this be copied out,
chambers; search, seek, find out: I'll warrant
When I was green in judgment: cold in blood,
With message unto princely Pericles;
Signior Baptista, for this fiend of hell,
Welcome, ye warlike Goths; welcome, Lucius;
What is this maid with whom thou wast at play?
And not where I had aim'd them.
I see them lording it in London streets,
From hence, from Silvia and from me thy friend.
You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault:
Fool, there was never a man so notoriously abused: I
If we have entrance, as I hope we shall,
Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him, then?
An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.
He will return; and hope I may that she,
To see a goodlier man.
Where's the lord governor?
he would not have spoke such a word.
Is that the one will help to cut the other.
Les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant
O, what a noble combat hast thou fought
That so she died; for her physician tells me
And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage no
The common file--a plague! tribunes for them!--
Despite Duke Humphrey or the cardinal.
machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all
we are married, that we may lighten our own hearts
Time is their master, and, when they see time,
Will turn unto a peaceful comic sport,
with life that I will sue to be rid of it.
Let us deal justly.
Upon the place beneath: it is twice blest;
When nature brought him to the door of death?
Or else you like not of my company.
Whither straight I'll lead you.
Launcelot, father; for the young gentleman,
The matter is to me, sir, as concerning Jaquenetta.
Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
Guess thou the rest; King Edward's friends must down,
With urging helpless patience wouldst relieve me,
The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy
And sword and shield,
I am cut to the brains.
He tells thee so himself.
This do thou for my love; and so let him,
It is too hard a knot for me to untie!
Our sister's man is certainly miscarried.
Enter OBERON
Dost please thyself in't?
ACT II
Enter the BASTARD, attended
I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour;
Ay, on mine honour.
Bid him repair to us to Ely House
when thou needest him, there thou shalt find him.
A worthy fellow,
Whom he hath used rather for sport than need
Name them.
Sir, she can turn, and turn, and yet go on,
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges.
This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would
Hold out this tempest. Bear away that child
Gentle lover, remedy.
Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
Enter the Boy with a linstock
To undeservers.
To make the service greater than the god
We all expect a gentle answer, Jew.
Let me not live to look upon your grace.
Between our after-supper and bed-time?
And ask him what apparel he will wear;
For, by the way, I'll sort occasion,
I do refer me to the oracle:
you shall go by him.
Come, gentle Master Slender, come; we stay for you.
anew: but I must attend his majesty's command, to
Hath made his meal on thee?
I'll die on him that says so but yourself.
He must observe their mood on whom he jests,
And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
O infinite virtue, comest thou smiling from
'Commend me to your master'--and the cap
Yet in the number I do know but one
but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies:
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!
For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound.
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
Let sapphire, pearl and rich embroidery,
The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds
Walking from watch to watch, from tent to tent,
To stay the judgment o' the divorce; for if
O God, that Somerset, who in proud heart
But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
To that I call!
More than, I fear, you are provided for.
Black as the ink that's on thee! Senseless bauble,
all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do
it in a kind of jollity.
Hail, most royal sir!
not where. If I travel but four foot by the squier
You spy! what do you spy? Come, give me an
O, were that all! I think not on my father;
Than I do now: with thought of such affections,
There's two of you; the devil make a third!
up at the door of a brothel-house for the sign of
His eye doth level at, so thou ne'er return
Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus
Well you deserve: they well deserve to have,
husband? I love him well; he is an honest man.
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
...
And be it moon, or sun, or what you please:
Soldiers, I thank you all; disperse yourselves;
Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?
Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain?
Shall be call'd queen, but princess dowager
Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
Even at that time I may be married too.
And I will stand the hazard of the die:
thou, Hermione, contrary to the faith and allegiance
I fear our happiness is at the highest.
For he is just and always loved us well.
Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
[Aside]  Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
how you take it!
The thunder-like percussion of thy sounds,
scurrility, witty without affection, audacious without
an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?
It poison'd me.
Should go so general current through the world.
to a point.
I warrant your honour.
Is not much miss'd, but with his friends:
And give as soft attachment to thy senses
She hung about my neck; and kiss on kiss
will awake it anon.
Certain, men should be what they seem.
Betid to any creature in the vessel
Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
If ever he have wife, let her he made
No, I defy all counsel, all redress,
What merit's in that reason which denies
That in this desert inaccessible,
Thy sister's naught: O Regan, she hath tied
Upon your heads--is nothing but heart-sorrow
ANTIPHOLUS
In speaking for myself. Yet, by your gracious patience,
By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites
Lies down upon his face
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
'Tis the ninth hour o' the morn.
So far exceed all instance, all discourse,
Away! get you away.
Salisbury, and Warwick;
Have loved without this mean, if on both parts
From off the gates of York fetch down the head,
Or else come after: I'll away before.
maidenhood, cannot for all that dissuade succession,
If I do lie and do
Me rather had my heart might feel your love
MIRANDA sleeps
I looked for the chalky cliffs, but I could find no
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
make an exchange; therefore discase thee instantly,
Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;
Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
To call upon him; he hopes it is no other
Stand, stand! We have the advantage of the ground;
Sometimes intrude not? who has a breast so pure,
That by proscription and bills of outlawry,
good enough.
From stem to stern: the boatswain whistles, and
hath been seduced by them; and the misery is,
Signior?
'Slight, I could so beat the rogue!
Dismiss your followers and, as suitors should,
Tell me what more thou know'st.
To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
Come I too late?
Plant those that have revolted in the van,
An absolute trust.
In the restoring his bereaved sense?
meant, plain holy-thistle. You may think perchance
will prove a cockney. I prithee now, ungird thy
There thou prickest her with a thistle.
Come on't what will.
Be not thyself; for how art thou a king
How? the best?
And at the deanery, where a priest attends,
Farewell, every one.
That I did love, for now my love is thaw'd;
Go to, then: we'll use this unwholesome humidity,
My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
I prattle out of fashion, and I dote
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him,
Here's too small a pasture for such store of muttons.
We will rather sleep than talk: we know what
Enter TITANIA, with her train
Why, this would make a man a man of salt,
And fears by pale white shown:
A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse
My liege, your highness now may do me good.
O you beast!
Let us into the city presently
Use no entreaty, for it is in vain.
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
cross-gartered: I say, remember. Go to, thou art
I am sick of that grief too, as I understand how all
Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner?
The lofty cedar, royal Cymbeline,
it were his; but, in respect of that, I would
Thou hast astonish'd me with thy high terms:
Her enemies' ranks,--I must withdraw and weep
Hang them or stab them, drown them in a draught,
To hear themselves remember'd.
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
Speak, count, 'tis your cue.
I will not hence and leave my husband here:
Why, now, blow wind, swell billow and swim bark!
To see his daughter, all his life's delight.
Where 'tis predominant; and 'tis powerful, think it,
Jack Cade! Jack Cade!
Such precious deeds in one that promises nought
Thy brother Edward, and thyself the sea
When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.
Nay, go not from me; I will follow thee.
If he be chaste, the flame will back descend
OLD receptacles, or common shores, of filth;
For who is he, whose chin is but enrich'd
This, by the way, I let you understand;
I would they were barbarians--as they are,
If she be black, and thereto have a wit,
A little fire is quickly trodden out;
Nor satisfying us.
When are you married, madam?
Make thy demand aloud.
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
Madam, this letter, and some certain jewels,
Do not say so, my lord.
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
O, father, you'll know more of that hereafter.
[Aside to MOTH]  Once to behold, rogue.
We John Cade, so termed of our supposed father,--
To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practise:
And will not suffer us to fetch him out,
A most manly wit, Margaret; it will not hurt a
To get slips of them.
And that he will, and shall, if Lucius live.
I must scratch.
sooner it wears. That thou art my son, I have
Hug their diseased perfumes, and have forgot
to write to one that she knew would flout her; 'I
My body shall make good upon this earth,
If you did wed my sister for her wealth,
directions in the true disciplines of the wars, look
Into this gaping hollow of the earth?
ignorance were as dark as hell; and I say, there
Marriage, uncle! alas, my years are young!
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,
Which the proud soul ne'er pays but to the proud.
I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will,
I would not take this from report; it is,
Can equally move with them. Provide your going;
This day is called the feast of Crispian:
I see we still did meet each other's man,
Short blister'd breeches, and those types of travel,
COUNTESS
As I in justice and true right express it.
Thou wilt be throng'd to shortly.
and gold and silver, is her grandsire upon his
Pur! the cat is gray.
marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats
The keeper of the prison, call to him;
Each heart in Rome does love and pity you:
Lo, whilst I waited on my tender lambs,
Her sighs will make a battery in his breast;
And be thy wife--if any be so mad--
Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this
Whom I do love and will do till my death.
Mine honour's such a ring:
sufficient. Three thousand ducats; I think I may
Re-enter PETRUCHIO
It is marring indeed, if he quarter it.
Hanged! by'r lady, then I have brought up a neck to
To greet me with premeditated welcomes;
That we can call these delicate creatures ours,
Here, here, here he comes.
You understand me not that tell me so:
I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again.
Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift,
And you, the empress! but we worldly men
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
For mine own part, unfold a dangerous speech,
Three thousand ducats, due unto the Jew,
Our chariots and our horsemen be in readiness:
make you to-day a squire of low degree. I pray you,
Sir,
Which he so sets at nought.
A vessel rides fast by, but not prepared
Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain,
sweet; deliver this paper into the royal hand of the
thing to you, wherein I must very much lay open mine
And come to deadly use.
And all the unsettled humours of the land,
That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him.
I guess their tenor.
Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends;
And therefore haste I to the parliament,
Enter VALENTINE
Nor on the beasts themselves, the birds, and fishes;
When for so slight and frivolous a cause
Let me be no assistant for a state,
was never man thus abused. I am no more mad than you
Four milk-white horses, trapp'd in silver.
away your child on a fool, and a physician? Look on
Out, strumpet! weep'st thou for him to my face?
That have of late so huddled on his back,
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Of whence you are, your name and parentage.
Good my lord!
that I shall die, is true; but for thy love, by the
Sir, let me be so bold as ask you,
And rather muse than ask why I entreat you,
When adverse foreigners affright my towns
Yea even my foes will shed fast-falling tears,
Great king, I am no strumpet, by my life;
Wife, love Lord Hastings, let him kiss your hand;
Gaoler, look to him.
A barren-spirited fellow; one that feeds
Then, have I reason to be fond of grief?
Re-enter MARIA
If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
With this unprofitable woe!
Thou, eunuch Mardian!
You are contented to be led in triumph
Speak, captain, for his life, and I will thee requite.
Is he married?
Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany,
One do I personate of Lord Timon's frame,
I give to baser life. So; have you done?
Willow, willow, willow,--
That's not my fault: he's master of my state:
Exit FALSTAFF
What, a hodge-pudding? a bag of flax?
Well, here is my leg.
And make them tame to their obedience!
Yes, lion-sick, sick of proud heart: you may call it
I pray you, is Signior Mountanto returned from the
knew yourself with your judgment, the fear of your
By the Lord, thou sayest true, lad. And is not my
I have a reasonable good ear in music. Let's have
And swear I lost the ring defending it.
And play the humble host.
Because all those things you have done of late,
That unsubstantial death is amorous,
O traitors, villains!
Although my last: no matter, since I feel
On thy too ready hearing? Disloyal! No:
Which shall be either to this gentleman
You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
indeed more than I took her for.
Being but the second generation
Exit EMILIA
So will I turn her virtue into pitch,
Tell me--but truly--but then speak the truth,
Finds the down pillow hard. Now peace be here,
Thou darest as well be hanged.
County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
Exit
Come, Grey, come, Vaughan, let us all embrace:
As I remember, Henry the Sixth
Good night.
Directly interest: mark what Jacob did.
Which grieves me when I see my shame in him.
To-morrow for the march are we addrest.
Exeunt
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
How old art thou, Francis?
Kneels
How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now?
There was a friar told me of this man.
As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her,
heats me with beating; when I am warm, he cools me
And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
Exeunt
Then reason safely with you. Therefore, be it known,
So fare you well at once; for Brutus' tongue
Caesar to Antony: let the old ruffian know
Knock,
Insulting Charles! hast thou by secret means
It shall not need; thy father hath his life.
We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight.
The other three are sealing. Octavia weeps
'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the tongues:' 'That I
Let me entreat, for I command no more,
By gar, me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me;
With my well saying!
If she had not a spirit to resist.
The tyrant custom, most grave senators,
For it hath cow'd my better part of man!
As I do long and wish to be a subject.
Distasted with the salt of broken tears.
Not long before your highness sped to France,
with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
And came to the eye o' the king: wherein was read,
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
When from the first to last betwixt us two
When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
Where small experience grows. But in a few,
How now! where's thy master? at my cousin
Help, Jupiter; or we appeal,
Makes thee the happier: heavens, deal so still!
But how is it that great Plantagenet
Shall not be sent: my hand will serve the turn:
Can set the duke up in despite of me.
Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea
A hundred thousand welcomes. I could weep
And I'll keep him so,
I not purpose it.
His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it;
HERMIONE swoons
Then, for the third part of a minute, hence;
Be sad, as we would make ye: think ye see
Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel,
On all deservers. From hence to Inverness,
head a gilt copper crown.
To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood;
Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
have a friend here convey, convey him out. Be not
Rarest sounds! Do ye not hear?
Enter CATESBY
No, in good sooth: the fire is dead with grief,
Could make him the receiver of; which he took,
How have we spent this morning!
And teach them how to war. And you, good yeoman,
comparison--had been something too fair and too good
Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
Rises
King Philip, listen to the cardinal.
A simple countryman, that brought her figs:
With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that
Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again: and
That the strict fates had pleased you had brought her hither,
Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.
Carry me to the gaol!
There's not the meanest spirit on our party
That have the office opposite to Saint Peter,
Who should have died when Claudio lost his head;
I am forsworn on 'mere necessity.'
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Unto his dastard foemen is betray'd.
Come, sirs.
Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter
Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
not me: therefore I am no sheep.
He is not, nor we have not heard from him.
Our mettle is bred out and they will give
maintained that salamander of yours with fire any
Remembering that my love to her is dead;
One that you love.
Enter BARDOLPH
And know the office that belongs to such.
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
You may think I love you not: let that appear
Ah, my good friend, what cheer?
You'll never meet a more sufficient man.
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
Than secret Romans, that have spoke the word,
He made confession of you,
We do deliver you. Get you therefore hence,
Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
Ah, Gloucester, hide thee from their hateful looks,
Which, as I take it, is a kind of puppy
You'ld venture an emballing: I myself
Hath brought me up to be your daughter's dower,
My daughter's buried. Well: where were you bred?
Would they make peace? terrible hell make war
Come, your answer in broken music; for thy voice is
Exeunt
displeasure, neither to speak of him, entreat for
To say what good respect I have of thee.
But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
Discredit more in hiding of the fault
See me no more, whether he be dead or no.
Why, old soldier,
No tearing, lady: I perceive you know it.
As precious eyesight, and did value me
To intercept this inconvenience,
Fall Greeks; fail fame; honour or go or stay;
Hadst not been born than not to have pleased me better.
What countryman? what name? what parentage?
I am supposed dead: the army breaking,
Nor to his service no such joy on earth.
Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
'Twill be naught:
Or hide your heads like cowards, and fly hence.
As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
And seek how we may prejudice the foe.
Attend his further pleasure.
Is crack'd, and all the precious liquor spilt,
Nor construe any further my neglect,
Yet the incessant weepings of my wife,
Exeunt
Where is my strength, my valour, and my force?
Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
And thou be thrust out like a fugitive?
They belch us. Look you, Cassio and my husband!
Is he whipp'd?
The captainship, thou shalt be met with thanks,
Good morrow, masters: each his several way.
Your gates against my force. Yet, for I loved thee,
Pay recompense, if you will grant my suit.
We'll make foul weather with despised tears;
As knots, by the conflux of meeting sap,
The messengers from our sister and the king.
Might easiliest harbour in? Thou blessed thing!
Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
As time and our concernings shall importune,
Thou hast faced many things.
To thee I pray; sweet Clifford, pity me!
Nor I, my lord.
Enter ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
That from me was Posthumus ript,
Saying, he'll lade it dry to have his way:
DON
But to look back in frown: stand, stand.'
So much my conscience whispers in your ear,
From where he should begin and end, but will
the tinker! Starveling! God's my life, stolen
We will ourself in person to this war:
Norfolk, throw down, we bid; there is no boot.
their limbs whole and hack our English.
Good fellow, tell us here the circumstance,
Turn, slave, and fight.
I know my lord hath spent of Timon's wealth,
This many summers in a sea of glory,
from man to dragon: he has wings; he's more than a
Now, at the latest minute of the hour,
Thou said'st, it comes o'er my memory,
MUTIUS is put into the tomb
Had I a glass, I would.
O Signieur Dew, thou diest on point of fox,
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
Exit
this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
Who mutually hath answer'd my affection,
Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high
Whither are you going?
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  What means this?
Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to the city;
For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd:
Sir, his chests and treasure
How may we try it further?
Before thou make a trial of her love?
He does confess he feels himself distracted;
Was never call'd to bear my part,
Misuse the tenor of thy kinsman's trust?
Enter two Gentlemen
How is't, brother!
shall lose all the sight.
I cannot tell: the world is grown so bad,
A banish'd traitor: all my treasury
'Tis an ill office for a gentleman,
I will tell you
Of Canterbury, from that holy see?
Come on assay. There's one gone to the harbour?
[Aside]  Mass, 'twill be sore law, then; for he was
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Put up your swords; you know not what you do.
Do not, in grant of all demands at large,
If ever he have child, abortive be it,
Till now, I ne'er endured.
By mingling them with us, the honour'd number,
and knock down! throw them into Thames!
Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.
Away with them! let them be clapp'd up close.
Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
medicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged; it
That such a keech can with his very bulk
My son's no dearer.
Re-enter LUCETTA
Who shall be of as little memory
Nor you, mistress,
but slenderly known himself.
As plates dropp'd from his pocket.
Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
She may do more, sir, than denying that:
Why, first,--for flouting me; and then, wherefore--
Bid them farewell, Cordelia, though unkind:
With marriage wherefore was he mock'd,
In the same time 'tis made? I will not.
and extend to you what further becomes his
With Cassio, mistress. Go to, charm your tongue.
What were you talking of when I came? Was Hector
Made louder by the o'er-fed breast
Though they had wings: slave, soulless villain, dog!
Dispatch; the limit of your lives is out.
He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'
The spirit of deep prophecy she hath,
I afeard of him! A very weak monster! The man i'
Over her passion; who, most rebel-like,
'My thoughts do harbour with my Silvia nightly,
Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us
SCENE II. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
Yield, rustic mountaineer.
O constancy, be strong upon my side,
Exeunt
standing-tuck,--
Strike at thy life. Grieved I, I had but one?
How shalt thou hope for mercy, rendering none?
Well, well, put up your sword.
twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may
Forsworn my company and rail'd at me,
Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on
Then, if thou grant'st thou'rt a man, I have forgot thee.
When I was dry with rage and extreme toil,
soul of this man is his clothes. Trust him not in
He's with the king your father.
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
I see the play so lies
I well might hear, delivered with a groan,
all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs, and flames o'
The little O, the earth.
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
Any thing in or out of our demands,
As I shall find the time to friend, I will.
Were damnable.
But you'll be secret?
Will furnish me. But soft! how many months
single: your abilities are too infant-like for
Or else thou diest to-morrow.
trim ones too: he is now as valiant as Hercules
I humbly beseech you, sir, to pardon me all the
I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight.
He being of age to govern of himself?
That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.
To come between our sentence and our power,
the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the
And let her joy her raven-colour'd love;
is called the Reproof Valiant. If again 'it was not
If there be one among the fair'st of Greece
Who, he? I think the sun where he was born
If one good deed in all my life I did,
was never lost in my house before.
Nay, in the body of this fleshly land,
let me have a child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry
Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
Sirrah, is this letter true?
Being a thing immortal as itself?
This borrow'd passion stands for true old woe;
As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford;
Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes
think so, which is another spur to my departure.
wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be by
the emperor from you.
It seems you loved not her, to leave her token.
[Aside]  Perish, base prince, ignoble Duke of York!
To be the post, in hope of his reward.
Sirrah, come on.
Marshal the rest, as they deserve their grace.
that my husband saw this letter! it would give
And if he chance to speak, be ready straight
By your leave, gods:--this is a Roman's part
Use all the observance of civility,
And banished I am, if but from thee.
appointed for the wrestling, and they are ready to
If I begin the battery once again,
Making them women of good carriage:
I pray you, let us satisfy our eyes
So much as but to prop him?
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide
But, if thou live to see like right bereft,
O monstrous act!
To empirics, or to dissever so
That I am wise. I must have liberty
The fraud of England, not the force of France,
My lord?
Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives:
Enter a Sheriff
And pour'd them down before him.
Thou dreadful Ajax; that the appalled air
Out, alas!
Thine being but a moiety of my grief,
And I beseech your majesty to make it
SCENE X. Between the two camps.
Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered;
Such garments and such years: 'The boy is fair,
To TRANIO
And tell her she is thine: to whom I promise
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
Exit
Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
Messala, I have here received letters,
Thou never shouldst love woman like to me.
His son is thirty.
Or useful serving-man and instrument,
Shall I command thy love? I may: shall I enforce
Exit DIONYZA
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
I do believe it, and I ask your pardon.
ANTIPHOLUS
purse, thou? Ah, how the poor world is pestered
Be't at her father's.
'Tis not the balm, the sceptre and the ball,
Bounds in my father's;' by Jove multipotent,
answer: my next is, 'Most fair Pyramus.' Heigh-ho!
Nor did he soil the fact with cowardice--
Where it seems best unto your royal self.
A pox on him, he's a cat still.
Where would you had remain'd until this time,
But, in the midst of this bright-shining day,
Sir,
Do not I know thou wouldst?
Off with the crown, and with the crown his head;
But if all aim but this be levell'd false,
How many shallow bauble boats dare sail
With a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers;
This day my sister should the cloister enter
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? speak,
love thee.
Let's reinforce, or fly.
Enter AENEAS
Improvident soldiers! had your watch been good,
Interpretation should abuse and call this
companion now? He hath every month a new sworn brother.
Which being shallow, you give me leave
Go, signify as much, while here we march
And yet dear too, because I bought mine own.
You,'--or 'I would request you,'--or 'I would
protest unto thee--
To say thou'lt enter friendly.
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
If thou deny, their blood upon thy head;
Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
Where's my brother?
And Antenorides, with massy staples
Let's to the Capitol;
A sennet. Enter, with actors before them, COMINIUS  the consul, MENENIUS, CORIOLANUS, Senators,  SICINIUS and BRUTUS. The Senators take their  places; the Tribunes take their Places by themselves. CORIOLANUS stands
I pray you, sir, take patience: I have hope.
In God's name what are you, and how came you hither?
France et vous etes mienne. It is as easy for me,
Lest parties, as he is beloved, break out,
Sir, I am made
Hath given them heart and courage to proceed:
Command an argosy to stem the waves.
But thou dost in thy passages of life
Sweet lords, sweet lovers, O, let us embrace!
That not another comfort like to this
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
Timon in this should pay more than he owes:
I should not for my life but weep with him.
Yes, heartily beseech you.
That I might sit all night and watch with you:
Alack, sir, I am sand-blind; I know you not.
And, Norfolk, throw down his.
Let's dry our eyes: and thus far hear me, Cromwell;
Enter HAMLET
No, trust me, sir, nor I.
Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,
I do not know that Englishman alive
Too nice, and yet too true!
Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil:
A soldier's a man;
You, sir, I entertain for one of my hundred; only I
Farewell, proud Rome; till Lucius come again,
Deserves the extremest death.
I smell the blood of a British man.
Or Ethiopian's tooth, or the fann'd
Care not for issue;
And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts.
Whence came you?
Guiltier than him they try. What's open made to justice,
I have a letter guessingly set down,
No kin no love, no blood, no soul so near me
To the succeeding royalty he leaves
call me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'
Hold, ho! Lieutenant,--sir--Montano,--gentlemen,--
Upon the wild sea banks and waft her love
are old men: tell me one thing that I shall ask you.
Offering the fortunes of his former days,
Now, Cinna: now, Metellus: what, Trebonius!
And there they fly or die, like scaled sculls
I pray you, tell it.
their christen names, as Tom, Dick, and Francis.
Or I should breathe it so into thy body,
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
Exit CICERO
Re-enter MACBETH and LENNOX, with ROSS
It is my only suit;
--Whose wrongs in us God pardon!--did set forth
Therefore, I say--
Her face defaced with scars of infamy,
Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
He is Cupid's grandfather and learns news of him.
distemper yours; therefore I shall crave of you your
I did so, and went further, which is now
To think of what a noble strain you are,
And copy of the father, eye, nose, lip,
Exeunt Executioners
Prove true, imagination, O, prove true,
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars
Which tells me in that glory once he was;
O that I knew he were but in by the week!
For our losses, his exchequer is too poor; for the
Early in blustering morn this lady was
Thy mind to her is now as low as were
To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
The brother of the Duke of Burgundy,
Since you are like to see the king before me,
O, thus I found her, straying in the park,
Come hither, sirrah, I must examine thee: what is thy name?
The dozen white louses do become an old coat well;
His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
We will not look upon him: go with us.
Enter, with drum and colours, MARCIUS, TITUS  LARTIUS, Captains and Soldiers. To them a Messenger
themselves, they may pass for excellent men. Here
His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant
And yet here's one in place I cannot pardon.
every trade, we shall never prosper.
My good lord, have great care
To take my life. Two of these fellows you
That we at our own charge shall ransom straight
Nor you, as we are, loyal.
An hour by his dial. O noble fool!
Mightst thou perceive austerely in his eye
Or Cytherea's breath; pale primroses
Lord Clifford vows to fight in thy defence:
Then so much have I heard:
She shall not sue unheard. So to them both.
Nay, that were a punishment too good for them, if
Caesar?
Never so little show of love to her,
That's most certain.
What is your pleasure, madam?
Not that I know.
I can but say their protestation over;
It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a
Save you, friend Cassio!
More criminal in thee than it,--so thou
I'll fight with him alone: stand, Diomed.
Say no more:
But you have done more miracles than I;
The devil take order now! I'll to the throng:
not, loves thee not. Ut, re, sol, la, mi, fa.
Doth noise abroad, Navarre hath made a vow,
Destroy'd his country, and his name remains
By and by, I come:--
In Antiochus and his daughter you have heard
his master with a pursuivant presently: we'll hear
full ripe: now we speak upon our cue, and our voice
As he hath used of old.
I'll plead for you myself, but you shall have
If you'll not here proclaim yourself our king,
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
O that he were alive, and here beholding
If it be that, or any that was hers,
Since Pompey's feast, as Menas says, is troubled
Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
They fight
Good worts! good cabbage. Slender, I broke your
before him.
It will have blood; they say, blood will have blood:
They are so.
Stabs himself
My duty pricks me on to utter that
Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
Well, masters, we hear our charge: let us go sit here
All is well ended, if this suit be won,
Proceed no straiter 'gainst our uncle Gloucester
Meanwhile must be an earnest motion
God knows, in anguish, pain and agony.
undiscovered. But 'tis all one to me; for had I
Ay, for these slips have made him noted long:
Elves, list your names; silence, you airy toys.
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
Is true of mind and made of no such baseness
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
Fresh kings are come to Troy: to-morrow
Though my mocks come home by me, I will now be merry.
Be closed in our household's monument.
Lucilius' Servant	Five thousand crowns, my lord.
Be angry when you will, it shall have scope;
So bold Leander would adventure it.
Look on my George; I am a gentleman:
Then leave her, sir; for, by the power that made me,
What shall I do? There is a gentleman my dear
Than ever Greek did compass in his arms,
This will I tell my master.
some violets, but they withered all when my father
niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it
All's one. Good faith, how foolish are our minds!
I see them! I see them! there's Best's son, the
Of his affection to me.
Exit
I'll come to him.
How, how, pray you? You amaze me: I would have I
Indeed, I am no mourner for that news,
Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consumed
Doth that grieve thee?
If I demand, before this royal view,
Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay!
She praised his complexion above Paris.
Giving myself a voluntary wound
I am commanded, with your leave and favour,
At her life's rate.
To base declension and loathed bigamy
Than hands or tongue, her spotless chastity,
O, then my best blood turn
Quoth my master:
With unrestrained loose companions,
Or wrath or craft may get him.
Or I mistake you: O, would her name were Grace!
Few come within the compass of my curse,--
Exit
As it is common for the younger sort
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
I once more take my leave.
it.
[Aside]  I am not in the mind but I were better to be
But ere we could arrive the point proposed,
What we shall say we have and what we owe.
The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side.
bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
I am a king, and privileged to speak.
I lodge my wife; I'll go in couples with her;
Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
See, where he stands between two clergymen!
Angliae, et Haeres Franciae.
To this we swore our aid. But in short space
Would by a good discourser lose some life,
if you like her, so; if not, I have lost my earnest.
How easy is it for the proper-false
And so there is: but yet the king hath drawn
The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
Stand, ho!
Nothing so heavy as these woes of mine.
Exeunt
Are you a comedian?
In common sense, sense saves another way.
And therein you are senseless.
With sore distraction. What I have done,
And got a calf in that same noble feat
In Ireland have I seen this stubborn Cade
The more we stay, the stronger grows our foe.
to second your attempt, and he shall fall between
And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:
Is scatter'd and disjoin'd from fellowship.
rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear
And with no little study, that my teaching
We shall, my liege.
Put on for villany; not born where't grows,
I know not by what power I am made bold,
From any other foul unlawful touch
throat cut like a calf.
I did but smile till now:
England, I could find in my heart.
Her people out upon her; and Antony,
But to relieve them of their heavy load;
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS QUICKLY
No sooner had they told this hellish tale,
The tribunes hear you not; no man is by;
To do my duty to my sovereign:
Within the limits of yon lime and stone:
how thine eye would emulate the diamond: thou hast
Scorning advice, read the conclusion then:
I'll point you where you shall have such receiving
And bitter shame hath spoil'd the sweet world's taste
I humbly thank your royal majesty.
But for our trusty brother-in-law and the abbot,
I'll not endure him.
I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,
That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword,
In his descent than shall my prompted sword
But where is Kate? where is my lovely bride?
is a basket: if he be of any reasonable stature, he
O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
How fain would I have hated all mankind!
And brought your prisoner to your palace gate.
If my sight fail not,
Happy return be to your royal grace!
another experiment of his suspicion: but I am glad
Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,
And is enough for both.
But this one word, whether thy tale be true.
This is the hand that stabb'd thy father York;
no. And, my lord, he desires you, that if the king
Farewell, thou woful welcomer of glory!
Is she become the suitor?
Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
Thou art rash as fire, to say
Greater than that.
Pity was all the fault that was in me;
When you are over-earnest with your Brutus,
Not rascal-like, to fall down with a pinch,
A letter was deliver'd to my hands,
If one so rude and of so mean condition
Follow me.
No harm, I trust, is done?
SCENE IV. A hall in the same.
And use it for my haste. Come, come, away!
And sleep in peace, slain in your country's wars!
Stain all your edges on me. Boy! false hound!
Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.
That's paragon'd o' the world.
mains d'un chevalier, je pense, le plus brave,
To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
To go to Paris?
In my chamber-window lies a book: bring it hither
Here is a thing too young for such a place,
The third of Antioch;
O paradox! Black is the badge of hell,
His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
Almost impregnable, his old ears deaf,
She and the Dauphin have been juggling:
Patience awhile, you'll hear the belly's answer.
Didst thou not tell me, Griffith, as thou led'st me,
if you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
I give my daughter to him, and will make
Lead away.
Madam, I was.
Have scarce strength left to give them burial.
Caesar has taken Toryne.
boast of them. Come, warble, come.
No doubt he's noble;
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.
With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
to the wall.
And make him of like spirit to himself.
I would adventure.
shall our poor city find: and all this is long of
What law does vouch mine own.
Lucius, all hail, Rome's royal emperor!
The winds did sing it to me, and the thunder,
Here is the Talbot: who would speak with him?
And lend my best attention. What's thy name?
[To MARINA]  Pray you, come hither awhile. You
and much fool may you find in you, even to the
Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS,  QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
Hark, Ventidius.
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
This is some token from a newer friend:
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
Return so much, I have shook my head and wept;
He hath been most notoriously abused.
To draw him from his holy exercise.
By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it.
my son Coriolanus: guess, but by my entertainment
Thus can the demigod Authority
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth.
safe-conduct for his person of the magnanimous
Procure me music ready when he wakes,
Ay, to see meat fill knaves and wine heat fools.
For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom say;
Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give
The cause were known to them it most concerns;
Else, ruin combat with their palaces!
And Cassandra laughed.
My lord, will you walk? dinner is ready.
Walk; let's see if other watchmen
No, by my troth, my lord.
Dispute it like a man.
To call thyself Marina.
And threats the throat of that his officer
And cook to honest creatures: but 'tis not so;
have more flesh than another man, and therefore more
the death of the king's disease.
[To KING RICHARD III]
So great an object: can this cockpit hold
Than wanton dalliance with a paramour.
Your words have took such pains as if they labour'd
Lord Cerimon, my lord; this man,
These tedious old fools!
The other half comes to the general state,
most mighty for thy place and sway,
And had he match'd according to his state,
There shall not at your father's house these
The proof of it will turn to redder drops. Look;
France, I am burn'd up with inflaming wrath;
That's meat and drink to me, now. I have seen
I wonder that thou, being, as thou sayest thou art,
Exit CURIO. Music plays
If that thy valour stand on sympathy,
Good man, those joyful tears show thy true heart:
But do not break your oaths; for of that sin
Than thou and John in manners; being as like
Thou art not ignorant what dear good will
No, no, forsooth; I dare not for my life.
Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.
But not remember'd in thy epitaph!
Your will be done: this must my comfort be,
Dispatch: this knave's tongue begins to double.
riot; take your vizaments in that.
Nor me, so I were one.
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so
All humbleness, all patience and impatience,
sucking dove; I will roar you an 'twere any
And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
Who attends us there?
The sheep: the other two concludes it,--o, u.
What shall I do?
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account
His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence,
Your son in Scotland being thus employ'd,
I am Pericles of Tyre: but tell me now
I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject;
My picked man of countries: 'My dear sir,'
Come, my gracious lord,
Alarum. Re-enter MESSALA, with BRUTUS, CATO, STRATO, VOLUMNIUS, and LUCILIUS
His speedy taking off. As for the mercy
Tom hath been scared out of his good wits: bless
Three proper young men, of excellent growth and presence.
Without your vows. Till she be married, madam,
Come, boy, with me; my thoughts are ripe in mischief:
Caesarion, whom they call my father's son,
We can both sing it: if thou'lt bear a part, thou
Should straight fall mad, or else die suddenly.
Enlarge the man committed yesterday,
All our service
I should have chid you for not bringing it,
To hasten on his expedition.
We have some secrets to confer about.
As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye,
Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf;
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
You common cry of curs! whose breath I hate
That murder'd Pompey.
Be brief, I pray you:
To show how quaint an orator you are:
Here, good my glass, take this for telling true:
A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
The Roman legions, all from Gallia drawn,
Forgive me, country, and sweet countrymen,
Lest, being miss'd, I be suspected of
Which so long sunder'd friends should dwell upon:
Peace, fool!
How now, what news with you?
What man is there so much unreasonable,
If I did love you in my master's flame,
Now, Montague, sit fast; I seek for thee,
likeness, he must appear naked and blind. Can you
He should receive his punishment in thanks:
Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband
And pay you for your voices. 'Tis no matter;
Why, beg, then.
My only love sprung from my only hate!
Now am I Dromio and his man unbound.
Sooth, but you must.
Stay: the king.
Because I cannot flatter and speak fair,
I am too sure of it: and it is for getting Madam
[Aside]                What will this come to?
Master Page, I am glad to see you: much good do it
And, by just computation of the time,
From over-credulous haste: but God above
one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south,
I know your master's pleasure and he mine:
Millions of mischiefs.
How quickly should you speed!
Why, boy! why, wag! how now! what's the matter?
This sword hath ended him: so shall it thee,
with Camillo to take away the life of our sovereign
We follow thee.
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
Duty and zeal to your unmatched mind,
If I quench thee, thou flaming minister,
Forthwith for what you come. Where's Gardiner?
Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
Of government the properties to unfold,
But I had rather kill two enemies.
The moon into salt tears: the earth's a thief,
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING, attended  with divers young Lords taking leave for the Florentine war; BERTRAM, and PAROLLES
you hag, you; come down, I say!
Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin,
Leave nothing out for length, and make us think
It must not be; there is no power in Venice
God be wi' you, sir.
carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to
cleared of the dead.
turquoise; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor:
O, she misused me past the endurance of a block!
Ah, now thou turn'st away thy face for shame!
Exeunt
She gives it out that you shall marry hey:
And then they call'd me foul adulteress,
God knows I had as lief be none as one.
That which so often you did bid me steal.
To men of middle age. You're very welcome.
my subject and he shall not suffer indignity.
Than you may call to comfort you, for I
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
I do, my lord; but long I shall not stay
Alarums. Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS wounded
Observe, observe, he's moody.
Choked with ambition of the meaner sort:
prodigal, who dare scarce show his head on the
buttock, or any buttock.
I can no more.
Peace, sirrah!
Against the rectorship of judgment?
Must give this cur the lie: and his own notion--
What does his lordship mean?
At your employment; at your service, sir;'
If that the youth will come this way to-morrow,
Exeunt
And every day I cannot come to woo.
Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
Nothing at all, unless that this were she.
May sweep to my revenge.
But till this afternoon his passion
Holy seems the quarrel
A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once
And so we'll leave you to your meditations
LADY MACBETH is carried out
As thy desires can wish.
Wilt thou not stoop? Now cursed be the time
But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving
And, by that knot, looks proudly o'er the crown,
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
So please you.
Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo,
The petty difference, we yet not know.
Caesar, thy thoughts
The mere effusion of thy proper loins,
O heaven! O heavenly powers!
Come, come.
Lysander, whereto tends all this?
who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that
But will suspect 'twas he that made the slaughter?
Thyself and office deftly show!
the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn
The pangs of barr'd affections, though the king
I shall lack voice: the deeds of Coriolanus
And prize me at her worth. In my true heart
O, when, I say, I look'd on Richard's face,
a jealous tyrant; his innocent babe truly begotten;
Be rough and razorable; she that--from whom?
Do, Paulina;
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
The provost knows our purpose and our plot.
The dun and factious nobles of the Greeks
At sea, I think.
And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade,
Within
ANTIPHOLUS
And only hitherward. I leave your honours.
[To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you; but I give
[Aside]  He need not fear the sword; for his coat is of proof.
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Come good fellow, put mine iron on:
Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
Be wise, and get you home.
That I have borne your father?
but my head and my neck. A fire good Curtis.
never had triumph'd upon a Scot.
To make an envious mountain on my back,
CARDINAL
With fear and horrid flight.
Because you bought them: shall I say to you,
O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married,
serenissima,--
worship's name.
Why birds and beasts from quality and kind,
No more of him; he is a worthy man: make way, they
Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at
No, no, they would not.
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
Shake it off. Come on;
Fie, thou dishonest Satan! I call thee by the most
True, and I for a plantain: thus came your
No care, no stop! so senseless of expense,
Thou virtuous Dauphin, alter not the doom
As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle. And
And if thy sons were ever dear to thee,
She shall have it, my lord, if it be not my lord Paris.
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
Exeunt
Would they strip from us; being valued thus:
with Barnardine's head: I will give him a present
unpitifully, methought.
Swifter than the moon's sphere;
Or lose my labour in assaying it.
To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,
decorum, and fortune him accordingly!
will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he
To make that only true we now intend,
the daintier sense.
And say 'twill do, I know, within a while
He said it would be thus, poor banish'd man!
Did you not speak to it?
Do stand but in a forced affection;
what villany soe'er I bid thee do, to perform it
nay-word how to know one another: I come to her in
Or as a little snow, tumbled about,
Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests;
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
yourself that which I am sure you do not know, or
They were trained together in their childhoods; and
Than you much willing to be counted wise
to give her, but have given largely to many to know
When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
I am a soldier, and unapt to weep,
Who now is girdled with a waist of iron
They converse apart
And now, to add more measure to your woes,
[Coming forward]  Why, how now, lords!
These dispositions, that of late transform you
Enter BIONDELLO
So farewell, Talbot; I'll no longer trust thee.
Re-enter Servant, with wine
Your majesty says very true: if your majesties is
[Aside to RODERIGO]  Away, I say; go out, and cry a mutiny.
diet; to watch like one that fears robbing; to
I had forgot; three months; you told me so.
Thy followers of repentance; that their souls
Is warlike Lucius general of the Goths?
Parts that become thee happily enough
Little knows this love in me:
He has; and we shall see him
Who loves to lie with me,
And be not fix'd in doom perpetual,
Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue;
Were jocund, and supposed their state was sure,
That all the abhorred things o' the earth amend
A noble duke, in nature as in name.
sixpence a day: an the duke had not given him
SCENE I. Rome. Before a gate of the city.
corner-stone?
You'll not be perjured, 'tis a hateful thing;
Cries, ah, ha! to the devil:
O, but they say the tongues of dying men
Stay, gentle Helena; hear my excuse:
To draw their swords: but how the fear of us
SCENE IV. LANGLEY. The DUKE OF YORK's garden.
For I have gain'd by 't.
O!
My dainty duck, my dear-a?
with my face? You are now out of your text: but
much to say 'God make me a light wench.' It is
Exit PANDARUS. An alarum
Better it were they all came by the father,
My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's;
One i' the neck, and two i' the thigh,--there's
A sign of dignity, a garish flag,
Shall she be placed in my constant soul.
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
Away, away, mad ass! his name is Lucentio and he is
Dead in his bed, my lord; Gloucester is dead.
'spare not me?' Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very
Full of the pasture, jumps along by him
Scorn now their hand should give them burial.
Why, Antony.
An honest country lord, as I am, beaten
That policy may either last so long,
Yea, sir, we hope.
That will confess perfection so could err
By Roderigo and fellows that are scaped:
That Christendom shall ever speak his virtue.
Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
Rome's readiest champions, repose you here in rest,
So dry he was for sway--wi' the King of Naples
God pless it and preserve it, as long as it pleases
Why ask you this?
Come, trusty sword;
a more penitent trade than your bawd; he doth
Hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more.
By him that made us all, I am resolved
found 'em, there I smelt 'em out. Go to, they are
Even to the utmost grain: that you shall read
'Tell me what fate awaits the Duke of Suffolk?
There be some sports are painful, and their labour
So, now prosperity begins to mellow
crowned with your enjoying her. Adieu. You shall
I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
Whose name was once our terror, now our comfort;
Patroclus kisses you.
[Aside]  I knew her well; she was a midwife.
To loss and what may follow! Weep I cannot,
Than what I know, yet shall the oracle
her wind so short, as if she were frayed with a
I'll hear you by and by.
No, not a word; how can I grace my talk,
So much commend itself, you shall be ours:
Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?
While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato?
But, by the grace of God, and Hume's advice,
I'll have no speaking: I will have my bond.
I hope she will deserve well,--and a little
Should be past grief: do not receive affliction
My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all:
I have seen thee stem, and thou hast oft beheld
Will raise your highness such a mighty sum
Though some of you with Pilate wash your hands
Regard me as I do not flatter, and
Enter EMILIA
Steeples and moss-grown towers. At your birth
The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long,
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
What yours?--and yours?
stand up here, and see them as they pass toward
I am in this earthly world; where to do harm
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
You are one of those
Therefore, above the rest, we parley to you:
This child of fancy, that Armado hight,
I will the banner from a trumpet take,
If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
After some question with him, was converted
Many can brook the weather that love not the wind.
prospect of my hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the
No, here it is.
Which since we cannot do to make you friends,
Your generals after.
And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
'Tis, marvel, but that you are but newly come,
That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.
lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge.
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
Goes all decorum.
long peace, ten times more dishonourable ragged than
SCENE III. The frontiers of Mantua. The forest.
Masters, let him go
I give it you.
Behold, sir.
Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor
Provokes itself and like the current flies
Or hew my way out with a bloody axe.
I have been troubled in my sleep this night,
prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have?
Exeunt
He loves your people
'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright.
for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
And leave those woes alone which I alone
As then your force did. Take that life, beseech you,
that I can drink with any tinker in his own language
Why, lo you now, I have spoke to the purpose twice:
DON
She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
Expell'd remorse and nature; who, with Sebastian,
They fight, and EDGAR knocks him down
Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened: I ha'
Make us strange stuff.
More venturous or desperate than this.
Where there's no profit. I prithee, to our rock;
They retire without the door
of the young gentleman gives him out to be of good
I learn'd of thee. How! not dead? not dead?
Therefore, I pray you, lead me to the caskets
So, if I prove a good repast to the
Exeunt
[Aside]  O excellent motion! O exceeding puppet!
He needs no indirect nor lawless course
Whom should we match with Henry, being a king,
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
To play the broker in mine own behalf;
How much money must I have?
Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby:
Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
They have put forth the haven
That faced and braved me in this matter so?
It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.
The tide whereof is now. Good night, great Hector.
'Tis but a blow, which never shall be known.
Diet his sickness, for it is my office,
Take her by the hand,
struck him down, the disdain and shame whereof hath
Wherein I see myself--
breach; and we talk, and, be Chrish, do nothing:
What men of name are slain on either side?
Governs Lord Angelo; a man whose blood
the earth?
Like to the senators of the antique Rome,
And put these same into young Arthur's hand,
Or we are Romans and will give you that
In the preferment of the eldest sister.
In honour'd love.
bite my thumb, sir.
He hath brought many captives home to Rome
Indeed, they say the senators tomorrow
rest of your fees, O gods--the senators of Athens,
Promise me friendship, but perform none: if thou
And yet the spacious breadth of this division
Most sweet voices!
Of such divine perfection, as Sir Proteus.
ANTIPHOLUS
Sir Richard Ketly, Davy Gam, esquire:
would vouchsafe the answer.
mettle in death, which commits some loving act upon
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
So, sirs: now go some and pull down the Savoy;
noble and true-hearted Kent banished! his
Good cheer, Antonio! What, man, courage yet!
In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn;
But only hope:
I know't; I thank you. You do love my lord:
Peasant, avaunt! You have suborn'd this man,
Your grace doo's me as great honours as can be
And I had mine!
I did some service; of such note indeed,
To rouse a lion than to start a hare!
Tongue-tied, our queen?
How shall we then dispense with that contract,
If wishes would prevail with me,
Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET
let the issue show itself.
What is the matter, trow?
That passion cannot rule.
And therewithal took measure of my body.
Enter ROMEO
He sits 'mongst men like a descended god:
As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney,
So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason;
They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
Camillo was his help in this, his pander:
Good aunt, stand up.
Flute, you must take Thisby on you.
If opportunity and humblest suit
A confused noise within:   'Mercy on us!'--  'We split, we split!'--'Farewell, my wife and  children!'-- 'Farewell, brother!'--'We split, we split, we split!'
Exeunt
Some other time for that. Beloved Regan,
Is not his heir a well-deserving son?
Led on by heaven, and crown'd with joy at last:
Five times redeem'd from death: I do not know
Chiron, thy years want wit, thy wit wants edge,
Because that, like a Jack, thou keep'st the stroke
An armour all of gold; it was a king's.
Hush! here comes Antony.
dislike; so is the will of a living daughter curbed
Away with him to death!
I had good argument for kissing once.
Mine honour, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue
me in manners the rather to express myself. You
Account me not your servant.
Of that self-blood that first gave life to you,
Seize on the shame-faced Henry, bear him hence;
Exit
That, in the official marks invested, you
What cause of suspicion?
She says she drinks no other drink but tears,
and the stony-hearted villains know it well enough:
This was but as a fly by an eagle: we had much more
And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover,
If she be so abandon'd to her sorrow
beard, or your French-crown-colour beard, your
how honour would become such a person. that it was
Exeunt
Notable pirate! thou salt-water thief!
ballad against the hard hearts of maids: it was
Catesby!
As to prenominate in nice conjecture
Gloves as sweet as damask roses;
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse to the Priory
through the very middest of you? and heavens and
That you withdraw you and abate your strength;
Ride thou unto the horsemen on yon hill:
Give me thy hand.
ACT V
Reads
At that sad stop, my lord,
Now, my good Lords of Salisbury and Warwick,
That Rome should dote on: yet, by the faith of men,
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
Your stinking greasy caps in hooting at
Ha!
With all my heart, I'll gossip at this feast.
Exeunt
A leaner action rend us. What's amiss,
Is the chair empty? is the sword unsway'd?
To-morrow truly will I meet with thee.
KENT is set at liberty
As I can change these poor accoutrements,
cry  'hem!' and bid you play it off. To conclude, I
Turn this way, Henry, and regard them not.
was hurt under your arm.
To fight against me under Percy's pay,
As looks the mother on her lowly babe
I would he knew that I had saved his brother!
Well, I will visit her: tell her so; and bid her
Success or loss, what is or is not, serves
Despiteful tidings! O unpleasing news!
Come, sister: I am press'd down with conceit--
And doth deserve a coronet of gold.
Sure, my noble lord,
Thou must be gone, wench, thou must be gone; thou
I was not angry since I came to France
There had made a lasting spring.
flesh and blood is my friend: ergo, he that kisses
As I can say nay to thee for myself,
There is a tide in the affairs of men,
Exit
But, with the motion of all elements,
acre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, any
No swearing.
That is not blinded by her majesty?
all free men? As Caesar loved me, I weep for him;
Enter ANGELO
last company: I am very glad to see you: even a
Intend here to besiege you in your castle:
Sir Walter Blunt, new lighted from his horse.
Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse?
And mine shall.
I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that
then of a crescent note, expected to prove so worthy
Re-enter LUCIUS, with wine and taper
Where never Roman shall take note of him.
court, shepherd?
And let our hearts, as subtle masters do,
courted now with a double occasion, gold and a means
How fares our gracious lady?
What honey is expected? Degree being vizarded,
make you dance. 'Zounds, consort!
Concluding 'Stay: not yet.'
that I might water an ass at it! I had rather be a
She creeps:
The fairest I have yet beheld, desires access
Exeunt
A cause for thy repeal, we shall not send
For it is none but thine!
Good time of day unto your royal grace!
Some to the wars, to try their fortune there;
They would restrain the one, distain the other.
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
already; unless you laugh and minister occasion to
Exeunt all but KING HENRY
courtesy! 'tis so, indeed. Yet again your fingers
And tender me, forsooth, affection,
She will not quench and let instructions enter
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
Out on you, owls! nothing but songs of death?
When I did him at this advantage take,
As of a knight well-spoken, neat and fine;
I do not cross you; but I will do so.
No, madam; for so long
Seeing the body of CLOTEN
But, as the devil would have it, three misbegotten
To pardon him that hath from nature stolen
I am a gentleman of Verona, sir,
These wars determine: if I cannot persuade thee
One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens,
Most goddess-like prank'd up: but that our feasts
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
We do require them of you, so to use them
the prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
Believe it, this is true:
Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;
I come to fetch you to the senate-house.
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
That I should seem to lack humanity
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Sure, he does not:
And therefore, lovely Tamora, queen of Goths,
come I to my mother: O, that she could speak now
Upon thee in the letter. Prithee, be content:
Why, York, what wilt thou do?
Then forth, dear countrymen: let us deliver
Tell Bolingbroke--for yond methinks he stands--
action? do I not bate? do I not dwindle? Why my
We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
would it were otherwise; that I could beat him,
They seek revenge and therefore will not yield.
Thou must not take my former sharpness ill:
Where heaven He knows how we shall answer him;
Sir, I am too old to learn:
That time of both this truth shall ne'er convince,
Go, call her in.
To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth
Upon whose property and most dear life
He hath ribbons of an the colours i' the rainbow;
But poverty could never draw 'em from me;
He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you
Nay, good my lord,--
name, accuse these men.
[To TRANIO]  Signior Lucentio, this is the
Your faithful servant: I dare lay mine honour
But let my favours hide thy mangled face;
Sir, sir, the first's for me; let her go by.
I'll do the service of a younger man
Come, come and lay him in his father's arms:
The which thou once didst bend against her breast,
Oh! oh! groans out for ha! ha! ha!
knowledge in th' aunchient wars, upon my particular
It was wise nature's end in the donation,
Should make a start o'er seas and vanquish you?
And nothing brings me all things. Go, live still;
And she did gratify his amorous works
Making not reservation of yourselves,
Had it our name, the value of one ten,
Among the route of nations, I will make thee
You straight are on your knees for pardon, pardon;
Did tell me of you, bade me trust you; but
unless his teeth be pulled out.
Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks;
Base tike, call'st thou me host? Now, by this hand,
Were best he do it secretly, alone.
Hearing applause and universal shout,
I'll have my bond; and therefore speak no more.
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
Is richly noted and here justified
Here GLOUCESTER's men beat out BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER's men, and enter in the hurly- burly the Mayor of London and his Officers
You shall not know by what strange accident
But tell me, keeper, will my nephew come?
possible, with well-weighing sums of gold, to
SCENE II. A field of battle near Barnet.
We came into the world like brother and brother;
He chides to hell and bids the other grow
Their several counsels they unbosom shall
But if the prince do live, let us salute him,
O that I were a god, to shoot forth thunder
Putting a paper crown on his head
Enter MARIA and Clown
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
The mirth o' the feast. Or I'll be thine, my fair,
And this is false you burden me withal.
That broker, that still breaks the pate of faith,
advantaged, and the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid
Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you
And blemish Caesar's triumph. Let him take thee,
Is not that he?
There's no remedy;
But is your grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
I will not stay thy questions; let me go:
Remove your thought; it doth abuse your bosom.
Why have you stol'n upon us thus! You come not
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
The setting sun, and music at the close,
My tongue shall hush again this storm of war
Who, Thersites?
And as for Pericles,
Such proclamation hath been made, my liege.
Marry, sir, so painted, to make her fair, that no
To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit; and he that
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death:
These sorrowful drops upon thy blood-stain'd face,
That face of hers again. Therefore be gone
Wherewith already France is overrun.
Pause awhile,
Have not you love enough to bear with me,
that I love passing well.
or unsafe circumstance--What can be said? Nothing
Be it as you shall privately determine,
Then thus:
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
of fear and cold heart, will he to the king and lay
And never ask'd for restitution.
The thing he means to kill more excellently.
And now declare, sweet stem from York's great stock,
It were a shame to call her back again
them, in a slough of mire; and set spurs and away,
To undergo with me an enterprise
If in his death the gods have us befriended,
Who would be jealous then of such a one?
Of late upon me: I must thank him only,
Of Phoebus' burning kisses: such a pother
That keep the word of promise to our ear,
To his concupiscible intemperate lust,
Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
Indeed, a sheep doth very often stray,
And, moreover, bully,--but first, master guest, and
That tidings came;--with this she fell distract,
So the boy Love is perjured every where:
I have heard her reported to be a woman of an
Master, a mercatante, or a pedant,
good to thee.
She melted into air. Affrighted much,
Here comes the townsmen on procession,
My careless father fondly gave away'?
O Thou, whose captain I account myself,
meeting may be wished, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour.
Well, nobles, well, 'tis politicly done,
Gave me my being and my father first,
heaved o'erboard, by this bottle; which I made of
With what, i' the name of God?
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Ay, leeks is good: hold you, there is a groat to
No news so bad abroad as this at home;
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
If you be hired for meed, go back again,
Petruchio is my name; Antonio's son,
He is a good sprag memory. Farewell, Mistress Page.
It is too late.
Which parti-coated presence of loose love
Heaven take my soul, and England keep my bones!
What's the noise?
Though Bassianus be the emperor's brother.
A pebble.
away where my hogshead of wine is, or I'll turn you
To the end of reckoning.
I must become a borrower of the night
Yet do not go away: come, basilisk,
Exit
The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
There's for thy pains.
Look, who kneels here! Flesh of thy flesh, Thaisa;
He should have had a volume of farewells;
word. I will rather leave to see Hector, than
That in the field lie slain: of princes, in this number,
E'en as Apemantus does now; hate a lord with my heart.
Hum, ha!
Cannot make better note.
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
That foul defacer of God's handiwork,
And to thee and thy company I bid
Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love,
a pen, good uncle.
Now, by my father's badge, old Nevil's crest,
From those that she calls servants or from mine?
The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye.
Stand to me in this cause. O mother! wife!
fiend, who, saving your reverence, is the devil
Your purse, still open, hath built Lord Cerimon
Are you a-weary of me?
'Tis true, my brother's daughter's queen of Tunis;
The power to cancel his captivity.
Where I will walk till thou return to me.
By no means what?
Good morrow to you both.
As true we are as flesh and blood can be:
rather praised for this than mocked; for it is as
'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,
Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena,
O, wonder!
CASCA first, then the other Conspirators and BRUTUS stab CAESAR
You should ask me what time o' day: there's no clock
Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit,
And your horse now would make him an ass.
Bring in our daughter, clothed like a bride,
I from the north.
of thousands to be paid from the Sophy.
Marry, and will, my lord, with all my heart.
John, saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter.
Why, how now, count! wherefore are you sad?
Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary
He said mine eyes were black and my hair black:
forest judge.
I would wish me only he.
insinuation, as it were, in via, in way, of
Is this in way of truth; yet ne'ertheless,
on me. Thou art violently carried away from grace:
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
A second time within these arms.
Never.
Heavens, can you suffer hell so to prevail?
[To LUCILIUS]           Love you the maid?
That gentle physic, given in time, had cured me;
To none but thee; no more, but when to thee.
I dare no longer stay.
I see thee yet, in form as palpable
Of old Andronicus. And what an if
Such temperate order in so fierce a cause,
My vouch against you, and my place i' the state,
No more of drowning, do you hear?
You weary those that refresh us: pray, let's see
Dost hate a medlar?
Methinks my lord should be religious
And make a quagmire of your mingled brains.
The manner and the purpose of his treason;
The name of Cassius honours this corruption,
Exeunt
Whose age has charms in it, whose title more,
surrender of his will but offend us.
Nay, then,--
Call thither all the officers o' the town,
If this be so, as yet the glass seems true,
Suffer love! a good epithet! I do suffer love
Exit Stephano
Enter FALSTAFF
would call abbominable: it insinuateth me of
This is he, my master said,
her their boots.
them. If there be not a conscience to be used in
confessed and lamented by the king, how
Nor never come in vizard to my friend,
How I have sped among the clergymen,
Nay, good my lord, go off:
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
But in these nice sharp quillets of the law,
On the ground
O villain! thou hast stolen both mine office and my name.
Mine hair be fixed on end, as one distract;
Master-Gunner	But now thou shalt not. Be thou ruled by me:
The royal disposition of that beast
And this the regal seat: possess it, York;
ACT IV
That they had gather'd a wise council to them
There is no primer business.
Agreed: I'll to yond corner.
There; and St. Nicholas be thy speed!
Then speak again; not all thy former tale,
I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir
Which is as bad as die with tickling.
that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
Ulysses,
Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,
In his bright radiance and collateral light
We wish your peace.
Why dost thou so oppress me with thine eye?
For Brutus is an honourable man;
Is colder than that theme, 'She had not been,
That shall attend his love.
hear your son was run away.
Give me thy arm:
Your grace may do your pleasure.
The heavens themselves, the planets and this centre
Proceed thus rashly to the villain's death,
Who never promiseth but he means to pay.
Rest you merry!
I'll be to Caesar; if thou pleasest not,
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
Let me but stand; I will not hurt your hearth.
As husbands have. What is it that they do
I'll read you matter deep and dangerous,
'Fore me, this fellow speaks! What then? what then?
Can I make men live, whether they will or no?
Henry the Fifth he first train'd to the wars;
Then to the wood will he to-morrow night
And all his lands and goods be confiscate.
Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn,
Beshrew him for't!
O Hermione,
'Twere good he were school'd.
No common wind, no customed event,
At your request a little from himself.
street about you, sir, but I marked him not; and yet
And she in mild terms begg'd my patience,
I will redeem all this on Percy's head
escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him
squarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil?
Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio?
John. Unless you go out disguised--
That I must love a loathed enemy.
For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
PROLOGUE
Yet I insisted, yet you answer'd not,
Never trust me, then; and by all means stir on the
That I may strike at Athens. I'll cheer up
Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless.
Not to the beast that would usurp their den.
out of the house: prithee, call my master to him.
me, like an old cuckold, with horns on his head, and
What, is this so?
Clapp'd on the outward eye of fickle France,
In our remove be thou at full ourself;
common herd was glad he refused the crown, he
Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
You health. So please you, sir.
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek
what they do.
Who is this? my niece, that flies away so fast!
Will he tell us what this show meant?
Establish'd then this law; to wit, no female
Exit
They would not take her life. Is not this true?
our trade, and are now 'for the Lord's sake.'
They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk;
rather be such a man as Troilus than Agamemnon and
That kills and pains not?
will hang them. Get you gone, and let me hear no
That which appears in proper nakedness?
Giving it to PERDITA
pinched with the colic, you make faces like
May you a better feast never behold,
Desire the earl to see me in my tent:
Heaven knows, they were besmear'd and over-stain'd
Why art thou angry?
speak with her; nor your name is not Master Cesario;
But yet, madam,--
I say, no;
For count of this, the count's a fool, I know it,
So, I am free; yet would not so have been,
sleep, and a hangman to help him to bed, I think he
Bid our commanders lead their charges off
There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory;
is three studied, ere ye'll thrice wink: and how
are rather point-device in your accoutrements as
Re-enter Hostess
Both? one? or neither? Neither can be enjoy'd,
Even fall upon my life.
Enter MALVOLIO
Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD
fifteen hundred paces of your tents.
There will I stay for thee.
Exeunt Attendants
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
At Christmas I no more desire a rose
Not cowardly put off my helmet to
I must needs appear.
Tongue, lose thy light;
Bow your knees.
Exit
That the main harvest reaps: loose now and then
So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
Forbear; here's company.
Or have we eaten on the insane root
Than would make up his message.
And say 'Alas, it was a piteous deed!'
Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so?
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
The former Hero! Hero that is dead!
this intolerable deal of sack! What there is else,
Scarce is dividant, touch them with several fortunes;
To CHIRON
O husband, hear me! ay, alack, how new
Sluttery to such neat excellence opposed
Out, hyperbolical fiend! how vexest thou this man!
The mayor in courtesy show'd me the castle,
I'll peck you o'er the pales else.
Against all rules of nature, and must be driven
Wherein your cunning can assist me much.
content. Here is a letter will say somewhat. Good
Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour:
Since I am charged in honour and by him
Fie, thou'rt a churl; ye've got a humour there
Canst thou catch any fishes, then?
name, friend?
I'll watch Titania when she is asleep,
It was a worthy building. How! a page!
Finely put off!
Levied an army, weening to redeem
the seaside, browsing of ivy. Good luck, an't be thy
To-morrow, an it please your majesty
By your untimely claspings with your child,
SCENE II. The coast of Wales. A castle in view.
Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
My jerkin is a doublet.
What shall be done? he will not hear, till feel:
How now, how now!
it is not Anne Page: by gar, I am cozened.
As fear may teach us out of late examples
What, that my leg is too long?
And bootless make the breathless housewife churn;
'Faith, she would serve after a long voyage at sea.
sir?
I flamed amazement: sometime I'ld divide,
nightingale. Hopdance cries in Tom's belly for two
He's ta'en.
The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this;
That God fought for us.
That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers?
Jesus bless us!
Here is my hand: you shall from this time be
But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
Now, by my mother's son, and that's myself,
[To KING RICHARD III]
Pointing to Goneril
If you would walk in absence of the sun.
When our most learned doctors leave us and
He's worth more sorrow,
So is the bargain.
To cross the seas and to be crown'd in France:
team of horse shall not pluck that from me; nor who
of affection would deliver me from the reprobate
excellent jests, fire-new from the mint, you should
'If that you will France win,
Thou hast bewitch'd my daughter, and thou art
Very brief, and to exceeding good sense--less.
For such as we are made of, such we be.
What may be wrought out of their discontent,
Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
The cruelty and envy of the people,
Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound?
I tell thee, fellow,
And no man else hath honour by his death.
Why, this is lunatics! this is mad as a mad dog!
Till we serve you; but when you have our roses,
Take but degree away, untune that string,
Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius,
Exit
That is the voice,
Which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal
A most singular and choice epithet.
But I do love thee! and when I love thee not,
And happily we might be interrupted.
I post from love: good lover, let me go.
That would upon the rack of this tough world
converse with a dumb-show? How oddly he is suited!
performances are no kin together.
Kent, in the Commentaries Caesar writ,
send him back again to my mother.
With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
That's bad enough, for I am but reproach:
With violent hefts. I have drunk,
And let confusion live! Plagues, incident to men,
And his device, a wreath of chivalry;
The ship is in her trim; the merry wind
In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
thee, out with't, and place it for her chief virtue.
Uncle, Adieu: O, let the hours be short
O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
Thou and thy faction shall repent this rape.
bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel
How in our voiding lobby hast thou stood
Which I first gave her; I saw it in his hand:
Promises Britain peace and plenty.
by your leave, good mistress.
Trumpet answers within
So I may answer thee with one as old, that was a
I was my chamber's prisoner.
Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
go to thy fellows; bid them cover the table, serve
I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts:
The blood of youth burns not with such excess
the rector of the place.
Look to my chattels and my movables:
please his mother and to be partly proud; which he
knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of.
I have outstood my time; which is material
Who sitting in the stocks refuge their shame,
Alack, and what shall good old York there see
Or thee? or thee? or any of your faction?
From whom you now must steal and take no leave,
And when we have our naked frailties hid,
To spite a raven's heart within a dove.
for; we shall be flouting; we cannot hold.
Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
Subdues and properties to his love and tendance
You have defended me from imminent death.
What's the matter, lieutenant?
No.
Thanks, i' faith, for silence is only commendable
But I'll be master of it: wilt thou not,
mistress exceeds in goodness the hugeness of your
he that died o' Wednesday. Doth he feel it? no.
Do so, for it is worth the listening to. These nine
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Pray you, go to him.
Succeeding his father Bolingbroke, did reign,
Why, well.
eyes of Troilus. Ne'er look, ne'er look: the eagles
O, that way madness lies; let me shun that;
And wish, so please my sovereign, ere I move,
What say'st thou? wilt thou be of our consort?
There is none worthy,
Fellow, be gone: I cannot brook thy sight:
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
SCENE II. Before Gloucester's castle.
By means whereof the towns each day revolted.
ANTIPHOLUS
If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayst live;
good moon-calf.
But, I pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and
Where Love is throned.
There let his head and lifeless body lie,
How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort?
What, Warwick, wilt thou leave the town and fight?
Hermione was not so much wrinkled, nothing
sweet-faced man; a proper man, as one shall see in a
Of what you shall deliver. Yet, give me leave:
Ay, my commander: when I presented Ceres,
That have no use for trusting. If your master
For do but stand upon the foaming shore,
Let them not live to taste this land's increase
To Bona, sister to the King of France.
That now
To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
Further than seen and one infect another
Should make desire vomit emptiness,
Even at noon-day upon the market-place,
God-a-mercy, Grumio! then he shall have no odds.
Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk?
defender of them, and, in a violent popular
And do him homage as obedient subjects;
That we our largest bounty may extend
For as I am, I live upon the rack.
Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?
Nor are they living
feared any, am vanquished by famine, not by valour.
Doubtless he would have made a noble knight;
This is the air-drawn dagger which, you said,
As thou art tender to't.
Exeunt
Is it not strange, Canidius,
Exeunt severally; HAMLET dragging in POLONIUS
Old fools are babes again; and must be used
I hear their drums: let's set our men in order,
It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,
Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
God comfort him in this necessity!
her and ill-thought on of you; gone between and
Expecting in return twenty for one?
You, Pyramus' father: myself, Thisby's father:
Witness the process of your speech, wherein
Which shipmen do the hurricano call,
More spongy to suck in the sense of fear,
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Against your yet ungalled estimation
And had intent to murder him;
For then this land was famously enrich'd
Most honest men! Why, how shall I requite you?
My stooping duty tenderly shall show.
To bring them to that prospect: damn them then,
Bring your army; but, I think, you'll find
Lay't so to his charge:
Of a detesting lord.
As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.
In praising her: I tell thee, lord of Greece,
Why grow the branches now the root is wither'd?
And burn him with their tapers.
I think this be the most villanous house in all
Go, get thee gone, I say.
But to make open proclamation:
If we should fail?
'Tis new to thee.
The gum down-roping from their pale-dead eyes
So longest way shall have the longest moans.
The perilous narrow ocean parts asunder:
To be the same in thine own act and valour
Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
Exit
The will, the will! we will hear Caesar's will.
Thou dost not slumber: see, thy two sons' heads,
For Valentine, I need not cite him to it:
Nor faint in the pursuit.
Then Clarence is at hand, I hear his drum.
if any man challenge this, he is a friend to
As if he mock'd himself and scorn'd his spirit
I lead espoused my bride along with me.
Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile!
When could they say till now, that talk'd of Rome,
Duke Alencon's.
You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,
and untempering effect of my visage. Now, beshrew
safely be admitted.
You had rather be at a breakfast of enemies than a
Even at my gates, with ranks of foreign powers:
There hath at least five Frenchmen died tonight.
Had you your letters from your wife, my lord?
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds;
From where he circumscribed with his sword,
I say, I will make him eat some part of my leek, or
Drum and Colours
changes when they are wives. I will be more jealous
Sir, you have saved my longing, and I feed
But when I came, alas! to wive,
Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail.
To cureless ruin. I stand here for law.
But to my charge. The king hath sent to know
Lives in this bosom, dearly cherished.
your grace, that he keep his vow and his oath: if
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
dog.
good parts did you first suffer love for me?
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
Lives in the English court, and is received
A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
Look, where he stands and glares!
had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do,
Black and portentous must this humour prove,
Continues still a Jove.
And saw the lion's shadow ere himself
Why, right; you are i' the right;
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do,
Thou that art like enough, through vassal fear,
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
greatness back?
Most disobedient and refractory.
Why ask you?
Say yea to thy desires. A thousand welcomes!
If we did think
hath not a glimpse of, nor any man an attaint but he
But if your title to the crown be weak,
That had a heart to love, and in that heart
That Margaret your queen and my son Edward
'Gainst nature still!
Come, lords, we trifle time away; I long
And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
ACT II
Not seldom, nor no slight cheques, when I have
Your loss is great, so your regard should be;
I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.
Lay hold upon him, Priam, hold him fast:
Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
To Desdemona hath to-night caroused
restitution. As I am a true spirit, welcome!
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
We'll mutiny.
That I protest I simply am a maid.
And such a flood of greatness fell on you,
To know, when two authorities are up,
About our squares of battle, were enow
And all eyes else dead coals! Fear thou no wife;
Whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost
To knee his throne, and, squire-like; pension beg
And, often but attended with weak guard,
Only attended by Nerissa here,
Exeunt
Exeunt
But, good lieutenant, is your general wived?
raised with it when I sit; driven out of doors with
Most strange!
Sir, you have wrestled well and overthrown
i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
'Though all at once cannot
God shall be truly known; and those about her
indeed he was mad for her, and talked of Satan and
Exeunt all but PERICLES
For strangers to my nature. I am yet
'Tis more, 'tis more, his son is elder, sir;
Why, I pray you, is not pig great? the pig, or the
Of wide Arabia are as thoroughfares now
May draw with you: there's millions now alive
But, not to be a troubler of your peace,
I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell,
Even in condition of the worst degree,
His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
Heaven forgive me!
Marry, hang her up for ever!
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
But for the concord of my state and time
Proportionable to the enemy
O, two such silver currents, when they join,
he made it seem in the trial of his several friends.
Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
Good madam, be not angry with the child.
Immoment toys, things of such dignity
Enter LUCIANA and ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
And the huge army of the world's desires,--
Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady?
And to her father turn our thoughts again,
O that I served that lady
I should have fear'd her had she been a devil.'
ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms?
Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt
Come on, sir.
How I may be deliver'd of these woes,
So horridly to shake our disposition
The circle of my glory.
Your beauty was the cause of that effect;
believe thee,
For every man has business and desire,
Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
Most abject in regard and dear in use!
My liege, here is the strangest controversy
To the protection of the prosperous gods,
Lest, in her greatness, by some mortal stroke
Will you hear more?
Do you busy yourself about that?
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
Lays his hand on his head
Who wrongs him?
There's none protector of the realm but I.
bestowed much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio.
Sits in grim majesty, to fright the world.
Turning the accomplishment of many years
places: for these fellows of infinite tongue, that
must know of me then, Antonio, my name is Sebastian,
Exit
That we meet here so strangely: but her son
Peace, I say! hear mine host of the Garter. Am I
get us some excellent music; for to-morrow night we
The helms o' the state, who care for you like fathers,
The affliction nor the fear.
By words or blows here let us win our right.
By nothing; for this is no oath:
I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness;
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords farewell.
There is five in the first show.
You wait on nature's mischief! Come, thick night,
Will you sup with me to-night, Casca?
Reverbs no hollowness.
And interchangeably hurl down my gage
wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:
The messengers of Venice stay the meat;
To say as I said then! But, come, away;
Therefore depart and leave him here with me.
SCENE IV. Before GLOUCESTER's castle. KENT in the stocks.
Well, say. Peace, ho!
Enter CLARENCE and BRAKENBURY
That which I owe is lost; but if you please
I am a scribbled form, drawn with a pen
While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart!
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
I take her hand.
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
First, madam, he is well.
withdrawn her father to break with him about it.
An apple, cleft in two, is not more twin
My lord and lady, it is now our time,
Give me my principal, and let me go.
horse in Padua to begin his wooing that would
Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
All these could not procure me any scathe,
his wife; 'tis none of his own getting. Horns?
He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
when she put 'em i' the paste alive; she knapped 'em
Taking up the letter
All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
That we adjourn this court till further day:
And this way comes he with it presently;
Give me thy knife, I will insult on him;
Knight, knight, good mother, Basilisco-like.
Enter LADY MACBETH
Needs must I like it well: I weep for joy
Let not young Mutius, then, that was thy joy
Were all too little to content and please,
Come you to seek the lamb here of the fox?
For the love of all the gods,
Whither wilt thou have me?
He hath abandoned his physicians, madam; under whose
To show their open banner. Now to you:
But not, as I am, royal.
She was the daughter of a king:
A tucket sounds
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
Belike that now she hath enfranchised them
In such a place, such sum or sums as are
Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in:
SCENE III. The British camp near Dover.
Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel
Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl,
Then have I kept it to a worthy end.
Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword and fire
Take them in.
By my halidom, I was fast asleep.
We bid be quiet when we hear it cry;
We have some old crab-trees here
I like him very well.
Why 'Heart's ease?'
Of your dear mother England, blush for shame;
Go, take their bodies hence.
By all the duties that I owe to Rome,
Unless it were a bloody murderer,
Milford-Haven. She hath my letter for the purpose
There's more in't than fair visage. Bullen!
DON
Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke.
Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast
Then once more to your Scottish prisoners.
The father of this seeming lady and
For I will touch thee but with reverent hands;
Hath in the tables of his law commanded
For I profess not talking; only this--
Must needs want pleading for a pair of eyes:
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
we term it, his friends whilst he's in directitude.
the guards are but slightly basted on neither: ere
I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you.
For France, for France, for it is more than need.
I am my master's true-confirmed love;
Why, with my lord, madam.
Comes hunting this way to disport himself.
Therefore they thought it good you hear a play
Who gave me fresh array and entertainment,
Enter COUNTESS and Clown
'Tis a villain, sir,
His princes and his peers to servitude,
And wonder of good deeds evilly bestow'd!
In this the heaven figures some event.
Alack, what heinous sin is it in me
Post back with speed, and tell him what hath chanced:
Might well have made our sport a comedy.
But that he speaks.
As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
What would you with the princess?
Will I set up my everlasting rest,
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
Than I will wrong such honourable men.
That it but mocks reproof.
And fall on my side so, against your will.
You with your children will he send before:
We see the very wreck that we must suffer;
I prithee now, my son,
You must not deny me: I must go with you to Belmont.
We were, fair queen,
In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words:
In congregations, to yawn, be still and wonder,
I could not speak with Dromio since at first
Whose high respect and rich validity
That makes amends for her sour breath.
good mounsieur, have a care the honey-bag break not;
No, uncle, I'll none: Adam's sons are my brethren;
stray, for entering his fee-simple without leave.
Sauf votre honneur, me understand vell.
Either past or not arrived to pith and puissance;
SCENE V. Fields without the town.
Hear it apart.
My very soul of counsel! stop my mouth.
that Worthy's thumb: he is not so big as the end of his club.
And follow me with speed: I'll to the king:
Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits
Macduff is fled to England.
O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band, he that brings
Be patient yet.
That knows the tinct and multiplying medicine,
Right true it is, your son Lucentio here
I shall not be hang'd now, although I would;
Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:
Periods his comfort.
and debile minister, great power, great
And think we think ourselves unsatisfied,
Scrambling, out-facing, fashion-monging boys,
and 'rests them; he, sir, that takes pity on decayed
Will you prick't with your eye?
To sunder them that yoke so well together.
Strange times, that weep with laughing, not with weeping!
Empale him with your weapons round about;
Under Sir Thomas Erpingham.
But note me, signior.
[Aside to SEBASTIAN]  Let it be to-night;
The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day:
In this I'll be impartial; be you judge
and skirts, round underborne with a bluish tinsel:
Wrest once the law to your authority:
As salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross
Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods
What of him?
In those foundations which I build upon,
Exit BARDOLPH
Makes me afeard.
Than stamps in gold or sums in sealed bags;
I mean it not; I seek you a better husband.
Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
Farewell.
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no
For this effect defective comes by cause:
Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land,
Now trust me, madam, it came hardly off;
Exit SIMPLE
Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes.
This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.
For forth he goes and visits all his host.
And therefore to revenge it, shalt thou die;
This, Douglas? no: I know this face full well:
Give pardon to my speech:
When from the mountain-top Pisanio show'd thee,
Thy name so buried in her.
Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at
Thou art his keeper.
A virtuous gentlewoman, mild and beautiful
The drum your honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
All that impedes thee from the golden round,
Flourish. Exeunt
O most pernicious woman!
Hark ye; Master Slender would speak a word with you.
The advancement of your children, gentle lady.
Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me,
SCENE III. The Duke of Albany's palace.
Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;
O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
O God's lady dear!
forthwith: dismiss your attendant there: look it be done.
For ever knit.
earth. Would it not grieve a woman to be
Late footed in the kingdom?
to purse-taking.
No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him,
Coriolanus will carry it.
SCENE VI. A chamber in a farmhouse adjoining the castle.
Sleep sound:
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
Why, my young cousin, it is good to grow.
him eat it that says I love not you.
Turning his face, he put his hand behind him,
SCENE II. LEWIS's camp at St. Edmundsbury.
This letter doth make good the friar's words,
I commend my duty to your lordship.
Peace! the peal begins.
will trust his wife; he will not be jealous. I will
And, when we are put off, fall to their throats:
she's a changeling and none of your flesh and blood.
You smile and mock me, as if I meant naughtily.
Go draw aside the curtains and discover
With lesser weight but not with lesser woe,
a reckoning. I am not yet of Percy's mind, the
At all times will you have my power alike?
Than keep a corner in the thing I love
I like it well. France, shall we knit our powers
honourable respect, and worn as a memorable trophy of
You may, then, spare that time.
When I was got, I'll send his soul to hell.
And thank us for your trouble.
Whither go you, George? Hark you.
How ill this taper burns! Ha! who comes here?
To treat of high affairs touching that time.
Yet have I ventured to come seek you out,
Dost thou think so, spirit?
And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and MARIA
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
With all my love I do commend me to you:
This liberty is all that I request,
Not only with what my revenue yielded,
Which never shall be found--you did suspect
Exit Servant
Beneath the visiting moon.
Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He
Was born of woman.
for a hot midsummer night; for, good youth, he went
crown for a pitiful bald crown!
Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
A most incivil one: the wrongs he did me
Meet on the market-place. We'll attend you there:
daughters will be all gentlemen born.
honey-bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur Mustardseed?
And so of these. Which is the natural man,
Cranmer will find a friend will not shrink from him.
Try many, all good, serve truly, never
and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from
heavenly compulsion; knaves, thieves, and
Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?
Italian fiend! Ay me, most credulous fool,
imaginations of your own heart: this is jealousies.
I should woo hard but be your groom. In honesty,
Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
Gramercy, fellow: there, drink that for me.
A herald, Kate? O, put me in thy books!
Am I not protector, saucy priest?
I promised your grace a hunter's peal.
I give, my cause who best can justify.
All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?
Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
Which was a sin, yet in bestowing, madam,
You have good judgment in horsemanship.
That by their witchcraft thus have marked me.
Will have of these trim vanities!
That it do singe yourself: we may outrun,
Even for the service that long since I did thee,
Is't a verdict?
Has caught me in his eye: I will present
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
thousand of these letters, writ with blank space for
Upon mine hostess there: good sir, make haste.
sum of money, be assailed by robbers and die in
And I will pamper it with lamentations.
relief nor my voice for thy preferment.
To give him hearing: is it four o'clock?
Descend, and open your uncharged ports:
Is such as basest and contemned'st wretches
The life thou gavest me first was lost and done,
See, Lucius, see how much she makes of thee:
had some reason for't; for if a king bid a man be a
Re-enter PHILOSTRATE
Unstaid and skittish in all motions else,
The quarrel toucheth none but us alone;
And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord,
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep
My wife, her sister, and a rabble more
Whilst we were wandering with the antipodes,
Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father
I have not kept my square; but that to come
'And wished to see thee cross-gartered.'
I beseech you, sir, go: my young master doth expect
Begin again
That's all I seek:
pretty one; a very pretty one: sure, some 'scape:
Have at you for a bitter jest or two!
But to the sport abroad: are you bound thither?
No, to their lives bad friends were contrary.
devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps
And he my husband best of all affects.
faults I have committed to your worship and to give
And I, in such a desperate bay of death,
for up and down she doth resemble thee:
For, as thou urgest justice, be assured
With crowns imperial, crowns and coronets,
Of what personage and years is he?
My lord?
Never.
In courage, courtship and proportion:
Between our Ilium and where she resides,
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
Before whose glory I was great in arms,
But that your royalty
Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing;
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
Since which she was removed to Kimbolton,
What, will you walk with me about the town,
I take it, by all voices, that forthwith
Leave off discourse of disability:
When there is nothing living but thee, thou shalt be
thought a good student; but to be said an honest man
To know your royal pleasure.
Which mates him first that first intends deceit.
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
Give me thy hand: I am sorry I beat thee; but,
Great nature, like his ancestry,
Seduced the pitch and height of all his thoughts
Made to my father, while his blood was poor,
In her days every man shall eat in safety,
Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him; that
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
Nay, you shall have no hat.
O my dear mother, do I see you living?
Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle
That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
O, let it not be said: forage, and run
Thy letters have transported me beyond
Against thy entrance.
christen could be better bit than I have been since
And I have bred her at my dearest cost
By all the gods that Romans bow before,
The Trojan trumpets sound the like, my lord.
Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay.
yield them,
This was his basket.
say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your
It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord,
And speed must answer it.
it fitteth not a prelate so to plead.
When thousands weep more than did laugh at it.
What, ho! my lord!
If little faults, proceeding on distemper,
Go bid my woman feign a sickness; say
Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
his new doublet before Easter? with another, for
She is thy very princess. Who is this?
His noble jury and foul cause can witness.
A babe to honour her! If she must teem,
All my abilities in thy behalf.
A strange tongue makes my cause more strange,
That was his mistress.
And we will hear it.
O thou damned cur! I shall--
Season your admiration for awhile
And will no longer have it be delay'd.
Enter the Ghost of Prince Edward, son to King Henry VI
I flatter not; but say thou art a caitiff.
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
Wherein have I so deserved of you,
A damned death!
In Richard's time; and posted day and night
Or stand so mammering on. What! Michael Cassio,
Our frustrate search on land. Well, let him go.
Scoff on, vile fiend and shameless courtezan!
You should for that have reprehended him.
church-door; but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask for
O, very mad, exceeding mad, in love too:
Fight closer, or, good faith, you'll catch a blow.
Than to abhor himself: even he drops down
I pluck this red rose with young Somerset
He hath commission from thy wife and me
Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
If we have unearned luck
And so have I, boy.
Then my dial goes not true: I took this lark for a bunting.
No matter who's displeased when you are gone:
Who's that?
I will entreat you, when you see my son,
changes I perceived in the king and Camillo were
Do this expediently and turn him going.
Will she go now to bed?
good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of
Patience, Prince Saturninus.
Wait else at door, a fellow-counsellor,
O Cressida, how often have I wished me thus!
That English may as French, French Englishmen,
Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself.
Is't possible the spells of France should juggle
More than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric,
Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
Of whence are you?
Come, come, to the purpose: did he love this woman?
Where is Malvolio? he is sad and civil,
To bid AEneas tell the tale twice o'er,
My sickness grows upon me.
What shall you ask of me that I'll deny,
You might have heard it else proclaim'd about.
Alas! dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours.
so that here men are punished for before-breach of
My hearty friends,
the dearer by I know how much an ounce.
Against my will to do myself this wrong.
I think it well:
Exeunt
See how the morning opes her golden gates,
Till the rough seas, that spare not any man,
Must I speak now?
Enter CORIOLANUS, AUFIDIUS, and others
This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract,
But I would have him dead, my Lord of Suffolk,
May carry through itself to that full issue
A motley fool; a miserable world!
I think you are all mated or stark mad.
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
As is the spring to the earth. And hath he too
We please them not by land.
Enter the conspirators, CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, CINNA, METELLUS CIMBER, and TREBONIUS
And yet my sky shall not want.
Up, princes! and, with spirit of honour edged
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds,
Feast with the best, and welcome to my house:
strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds. Your
I shall not fail to approve the fair conceit
Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
to the country maid Jaquenetta:
And all the haunt be ours. Come, Eros, Eros!
curse of mankind, folly and ignorance, be thine in
O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
Clarence hath not another day to live:
From mine own knowledge. As nearly as I may,
SCENE II. London. YORK'S garden.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
DON
If, Duke of Burgundy, you would the peace,
come a little nearer this ways.
A prating boy, that begg'd it as a fee:
whom I am now in ward, evermore in subjection.
And we alive that lived? Fly, damned baseness,
Your fortune stood upon the casket there,
You've strange serpents there.
Although ye hale me to a violent death.
You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
easy as a cannon will shoot point-blank twelve
Upon the right hand I; keep thou the left.
Be not offended; for it hurts not him
And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
The which he promised. Do but encave yourself,
This minion stood upon her chastity,
This falls out better than I could devise.
His soldiers sick and famish'd in their march,
all sorts enchantingly beloved, and indeed so much
Through the house give gathering light,
Suppose the ambassador from the French comes back;
I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb.
church; take the priest, clerk, and some sufficient
For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising.
And she to him, to stay him not too long,
Well, Mistress Ford; what of her?
Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death,
May be the lady: thou shalt know the man
Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die:
Stabbing him
Descends
So Judas did to Christ: but he, in twelve,
youth to an answer. I think oxen and wainropes
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
Take from my mouth the wish of happy years:
Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout;
And furthermore tell him, we desire to know of him,
Well, your imprisonment shall not be long;
I cannot now prove constant to myself,
Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink!
the king's laws in now the king's quarrel: where
John, for your diet and by-drinkings, and money lent
How do you, Malvolio?
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,
Now stay your strife: what shall be is dispatch'd.
Shall stop or spur me. Have I done well?
Mine eyes are cloy'd with view of tyranny:
I hope I am not too late; and yet the gentleman,
Beatrice,--
Let him come in.
That's he that was Othello: here I am.
Dismissing half your train, come then to me:
To urge the thing held as a ceremony?
So is he, being a man.
That ever blotted paper! Gentle lady,
A lightning before death: O, how may I
Express'd and not express'd. But when this ring
In some reclusive and religious life,
wailing, my sister crying, our maid howling, our cat
By heaven, I come in perfect love to him;
To hear her prayers for them, as now for us
His passion is so ripe, it needs must break.
out ere he come?
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
of work; which not to have been blest withal would
churchyard,
O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
Ha! not for the wide world.
he was rheumatic, and talked of the whore of Babylon.
But that it would be double-dealing, sir, I would
Exeunt
Doth your honour see any harm in his face?
Stick to your journal course: the breach of custom
But with a lingering dram that should not work
SCENE IV. The Tower of London.
To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking
Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
warning: the deputy cannot abide a whoremaster: if
So dear I loved the man, that I must weep.
But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
Young lad, come forth; I have to say with you.
O, what a scene of foolery have I seen,
Against your vain assault.
Re-enter Servants
'Tis old, but true, Still swine eat all the draff.
Bring him our prisoner.
When he did stand for consul, which he lost
Made Lud's town with rejoicing fires bright
You shall have your desires with interest
Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractised;
For young hot colts being raged do rage the more.
But I a beam do find in each of three.
Where are the evidence that do accuse me?
O monstrous!
Where is he?
Good day and happiness, dear Rosalind!
Retires
In like manner was I in debt to my importunate
So may the outward shows be least themselves:
of eating and drinking.
Should yield the world this ass! a woman that
Spoke scantly of me: when perforce he could not
I think you know him; Master Doctor Caius, the
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence
Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the
I do remember now: henceforth I'll bear
To take her with him to the Isle of Man.
Good night, sweet lord Menelaus.
And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.
To hurl upon their heads that break his law.
Pompey the Huge!
The allusion holds in the exchange.
May show like all yourself.
Alack, thou dost usurp authority.
If you have any music that may not be heard, to't
Now in the rearward comes the duke and his:
The happy man; whether defect of judgment,
While he enjoys the honour and his ease.
Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
threshold till my lord return from the wars.
Even to Cato's wish, not fierce and terrible
That give a name to every fixed star
Exit
events in the womb of time which will be delivered.
Thou common friend, that's without faith or love,
'Then music with her silver sound
Cold, indeed; and labour lost:
Both merits poised, each weighs nor less nor more;
I take no heed of thee; thou'rt an Athenian,
For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
Ay.
Our pastimes done, possess a golden slumber;
Plainly conceive, I love you.
Let some o' the guard be ready there.
Yerk out their armed heels at their dead masters,
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
Fame, at the which he aims,
When in the streets he meets such golden gifts.
--what will you adventure
What do ye talk?
the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but my
Your Coriolanus
I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.
If I should be! I had rather be a pedlar:
And once fought with him: he was a soldier good;
And leave out thee? stay, dog, for thou shalt hear me.
Sly, old Sly's son of Burtonheath, by birth a
steps me to her trencher and steals her capon's leg:
My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word;
To rouse a Grecian that is true in love:
Four days will quickly steep themselves in night;
The red wine first must rise
Which thou thyself hast given her woful breast.
ye for a young prince, i' faith.
But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
you stand on distance, your passes, stoccadoes, and
So please my lord, I might not be admitted;
Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you: let me
Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.
Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues,--
The masters of some merchant and the merchant
How youngly he began to serve his country,
Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
And, to conclude, reproach and beggary
Either I mistake your shape and making quite,
This get I by his death: ay me, unhappy!
For a charm of powerful trouble,
Nay, stand thou back, I will not budge a foot:
This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot;
barrow of butcher's offal, and to be thrown in the
This ring, you say, was yours?
Thy father's charge shall clear thee from that stain.
What, is he dead?
To be fantastic may become a youth
Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
Bid them come near.
I sent him from the mart. See, here he comes.
To me, blood-thirsty lord;
Tell me precisely of what complexion.
And bleat the one at the other: what we changed
A horned man's a monster and a beast.
What say you? Hence,
For this fool gudgeon, this opinion.
Ay, that you shall.
The greatest man in England but the king.
Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
And make thy weapon drop.
Does show the mood of a much troubled breast;
'Tis positive 'gainst all exceptions, lords,
Warlike and martial Talbot, Burgundy
Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,
What, is he fled? Go some, and follow him;
Ay, and have been so any time these four hours.
To leave the figure or disfigure it.
prune; nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn
He's married, madam.
Where shall we meet i' the morning?
If sight and shape be true,
I would I might go to hell among the rogues. And so
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate
Was I a child to fear I know not what.
Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
But, as the rest, so fell that noble earl
By the eternal God, whose name and power
Are natural breath: but, howsoe'er you have
for him. Cotus!
Pointing to the nurse
My supreme crown of grief! and those repeated
When they are bound to serve, love and obey.
O that my prayers could such affection move!
But one that's here, and that's himself, for he
And thy ambition, Gloucester.
Good morrow, noble sir.
ANTIPHOLUS
Full of decay and failing? O monument
E'en so thou outrunnest grace. Fool, I will go with
A wightly wanton with a velvet brow,
Speak, brave Hector: we are much delighted.
pitiful cries they made to us to help them, when,
Pythagoras' time, that I was an Irish rat, which I
He kneels
she comes in the habit of a light wench: and thereof
An honest poor servant of yours.
He hath, my lord.
Are brazen images of canonized saints.
As offer'd mercy is. What was the last
tribunal plebs, to take up a matter of brawl
stooping for, there it lies in your eye; if not, be
I wish you all the joy that you can wish;
For truth to o'er-peer. Rather than fool it so,
The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
I'll be with her by and by; I'll but bring my young
The basin that receives your guilty blood.
Will make my boldness manners. Now, good angels
Of fickle changelings and poor discontents,
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
One must prove greatest: while they weigh so even,
But lately splinter'd, knit, and join'd together,
I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
When one so great begins to rage, he's hunted
Love thyself last: cherish those hearts that hate thee;
I am near to the place where they should meet, if
Then, by myself--
pies; mace; dates?--none, that's out of my note;
Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head
And danger, which I fear'd, is at Antioch,
Doubly divorced! Bad men, you violate
Till he be brought unto the empress' face,
You do not purpose to him; and as hardly
To throw away the dearest thing he owed,
To CORDELIA
What then?
I think nothing, my lord.
long spoon.
Can you make no use of your discontent?
How now! what news from her?
Why, we have galls, and though we have some grace,
Peace, tender sapling; thou art made of tears,
To be corrupt and treasonous.
now shalt thou be moved. Give me a cup of sack to
Re-enter OPHELIA
Shall sink in my rebuke. Give me to know
conversant in general services, and more remarkable
Can lay to bed for ever; whiles you, doing thus,
Of Costard.
Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
A plague upon them! wherefore should I curse them?
unto you again, you are a shallow cowardly hind, and
As from her lord, her governor, her king.
That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,
The fishermen, that walk upon the beach,
Think so, Iago!
There to give up their power. If you can, pace your wisdom
He would say untruths; and be ever double
Why not, my lord? If then they chanced to slack you,
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
O Lord, I cannot speak to him for weeping;
'Tis holy sport to be a little vain,
Thou liest.
the princess my sister called my father father; and
Unto the weary and all-watched night,
I pray you, what is he?
Now, madam, summon up your dearest spirits:
This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart:
not warily, fall into foul bogs. I had rather have
As often as we eat. By the elements,
Lent him our terror, dress'd him with our love,
Enter the DUCHESS OF YORK, with the two children of CLARENCE
great and trusty business in a main danger fail you.
That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death
Yes, better, sir.
Rescued is Orleans from the English
For them! I cannot do it to the gods;
Than is the doting title of a mother;
And nothing of your answer.
Heart, once be stronger than thy continent,
The base is right; 'tis the base knave that jars.
As with the meat, some undeserved fault
but chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a
Then let us both be sudden.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Was that mine?
If any thing more than your sport and pleasure
grace the attempt for a worthy exploit: if you
So thou apprehendest it: take it for thy labour.
Long mayst thou live in Richard's seat to sit,
He were created knight for his good service.
Chaos is come again.
cuff was but to knock at your ear, and beseech
the commanders very poor rogues, upon my reputation
Beg of her for remedy.
O monstrous! but one half-penny-worth of bread to
You have misled a prince, a royal king,
As who would say, in Rome no justice were.
Out, out, Lucetta! that would be ill-favour'd.
O, send some succor to the distress'd lord!
John Cade of Ashford,
Myself will straight aboard: and to the state
ere he has me.
Can task the free breath of a sacred king?
Help, masters!--Here's a goodly watch indeed!
Leave not the worthy Lucius, good my lords,
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Will even weigh, and both as light as tales.
yet was not the knight forsworn.
Search Windsor Castle, elves, within and out:
that frailty hath examples for his falling, I should
That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly
pretence of danger.
greater that I am subdued. Would the cook were of
their tribunes for ever. This lies glowing, I can
O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
The uncivil kerns of Ireland are in arms
Then to cart with Rosalind.
found his heir?
Again with Rome's mechanics: tell me not
Your company to the Capitol; where, I know,
This punk is one of Cupid's carriers:
Or thou goest to the orange or mill.
And love you 'gainst the nature of love,--force ye.
The treasury of everlasting joy.
The want whereof doth daily make revolt
All-worthy villain!
And durst commend a secret to your ear
Your Caesar's father oft,
Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
'Tis government that makes them seem divine;
Upon this ground; and more it would content me
And, with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget,
And wait the season and observe the times
Ay, but the case is alter'd:
The providence that's in a watchful state
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
'Twere pity two such friends should be long foes.
Take all, and wean it; it may prove an ox.
How foolish do your fears seem now, Calpurnia!
[Aside to DONALBAIN]        Nor our strong sorrow
Like one another's glass to trim them by:
Would I could free't!
You have put me now to such a part which never
Have all his ventures fail'd? What, not one hit?
Faith, I do: her father bequeathed her to me; and
How that the cardinal did entreat his holiness
And let my counsel sway you in this case.
With my master's ship? why, it is at sea.
Look, whether he have not crown'd dead Cassius!
tears that ever we shed.
Dost thou look up?
I ne'er again shall see her. O thou mine heir
The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well.
you had it, I'll take out no work on't.
Then is all safe, the anchor's in the port.
thing handsome about him. Bring him away. O that
Drag hence her husband to some secret hole,
No, good sweet sir; no, I beseech you, sir: I have
His grace
And, to be brief, my practise so prevail'd,
Shout. Trumpets flourish
Most likely, sir.
I'll seek them.
We'll show thee Io as she was a maid,
Heaven give your spirits comfort!
Not I, sir; you are my elder.
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
No: first shall war unpeople this my realm;
And say 'Will't please your lordship cool your hands?'
business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
If Sir John Fastolfe had not play'd the coward:
Beseeching God and you to pardon me.
In charging you with matters, to commit you,
Whose honour and whose honesty till now
'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack and be gone.
myself. I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear
On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
If not of hell, the heavens, sure, favour him.
A round hose, madam, now's not worth a pin,
Here they stand martyrs, slain in Cupid's wars;
And seen the desolation of your streets:
One of our souls had wander'd in the air.
Enter PRINCE HENRY
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
To your notorious shame; I doubt it not.
Will send thee hither both thy sons alive;
Beyond the mark of others: our then dictator,
And strip myself to death, as to a bed
art full of error; I am sound.
SCENE III. A room in Polonius' house.
Wounded to death.
And whiter than the paper it writ on
Signior Benedick.
By my troth, well met. Come, sit, sit, and a song.
man to kill him: 't has been proved. If I were a
Which, but three glasses since, we gave out split--
Authority melts from me: of late, when I cried 'Ho!'
An interlude!
Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd!
Can tickle where she wounds! My dearest husband,
Go call him hither.
Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
Leave procreants alone and shut the door;
The woe's to come; the children yet unborn.
Do you doubt that?
not hurt: it is a thoroughfare for steel, if it be not hurt.
O, turn thy edged sword another way;
Let it alone, thou fool; it is but trash.
And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
For your partaker Pole and you yourself,
He is so plaguy proud that the death-tokens of it
And time hath worn us into slovenry:
In the next chamber.
Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues
If it were so,--
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
Within whose circuit is Elysium
If I keep them, I needs must lose myself;
Here: what would my lord?
With him, my lord; for he hath done me wrong.
Why, thou must be thyself.
man may hear this shower sing in the wind. And
look you, this leek: because, look you, you do not
'tis shame for us all: so God sa' me, 'tis shame to
Good morrow, Casca. Caius Ligarius,
Now, my Titania; wake you, my sweet queen.
I idly heard; if true or false I know not.
bewitchment of some popular man and give it
And make you long become it!
SCENE IV. London. The Temple-garden.
We make woe wanton with this fond delay:
Deserve our better wishes.
And I must know it, else he loves me not.
Dost thou believe't?
To LEONTES
SCENE II. Sandal Castle.
Making them lightest that wear most of it:
Paints itself black, to imitate her brow.
Holds in his blood such swoln and hot discourse
An 'twere my case, I should go hang myself.
Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
honourable virtues.
Apparent to my heart.
I'll find about the making of the bed;
Your patience so predominant in your nature
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
For idiots in this case of favour would
Nor of them look for such observances
It were convenient you had such a devil:
When fitness calls them on, and know by measure
Inclined to this intelligence, pronounce
I'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture,
And by the hazard of the spotted die
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
O, loving uncle, kind Duke of Gloucester,
Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.
A linguist and a man of such perfection
Caesar? art thou led in triumph? What, is there
vaillant, et tres distingue seigneur d'Angleterre.
With men of courage and with means defendant;
Have stood against the world; now lies he there.
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
i' the world.
Or Jove for's power to thunder. His heart's his mouth:
amazed; call all your senses to you; defend your
And save me so much talking.
Will use you nobly and your followers.
God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
Valentine?
approbation of what I have spoke!
And, lest thou shouldst detect him, cut thy tongue.
My gracious sovereign,
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
Which I so often owe: but your ring first;
From every meaner man.
So near the cradle of the fairy queen?
is no mean happiness therefore, to be seated in the
In secret ambush on the forest side
Now fear is from me, I'll speak troth. Lord Cloten,
COUNTESS
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
Should you do so, my lord,
The which I hope is not enrolled there;
Hear me, people; peace!
Alas, then, she is drown'd?
That's yet unbruised: bring me but out at gate.
Pull off my boots: harder, harder: so.
peradventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall
Murder, stem murder, in the direst degree;
Held in contempt; whilst many fair promotions
As certain as I know the sun is fire:
Look out, and speak to friends: the Athenians,
God and his angels guard your sacred throne
By day, by night, waking and in my dreams,
Ere I was risen from the place that show'd
There is between my will and all offences
Some bear out SLY. A trumpet sounds
Since that the trade and profit of the city
Are all I can return. Beseech your lordship,
God keep your ladyship still in that mind! so some
No, sir, I say his horse comes, with him on his back.
For they are thrifty honest men, and such
you, I am of the church, and will be glad to do my
Will they not, think you, hang themselves tonight?
For which the pardoner himself is in.
Doth love my daughter and she loveth him,
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
Than hath been taught by any of my trade:
What was he that did make it? See, my lord,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
indistinguishable cur, no.
for my part, the sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere I
thought he would.
All these old witnesses--I cannot err--
Weaves tedious snares to trap mine enemies.
Stands with the snares of war to tangle thee:
presence, even the presence of Lord Mortimer, that I
The adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey,
Which torments me to conceal. By villany
And deal with others better.
envious a scholar, a statesman and a soldier.
Lord Cerimon hath letters of good credit, sir,
He may surrender; so we shall proceed
Success unto our valiant general,
With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
sores; and such as indeed were never soldiers, but
And being not done, where doing tends to ill,
But stop their mouths with stubborn bits, and spur 'em,
And my pretext to strike at him admits
To execute the like upon thyself;
[To BERTRAM]  These things shall be done, sir.
How shall I honour thee for this success?
Come here for physic.
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
You Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham,
Bade him win all.
For certainly thou art so near the gulf,
You'ld be king o' the isle, sirrah?
And make them skirr away, as swift as stones
Re-enter FABIAN, with MALVOLIO
The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun,
Prithee, hold thy peace; this is not the way: do
Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?
But undergo this flight, make for Sicilia,
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
liking; I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I
That Talbot's name might be in thee revived
As one incapable of her own distress,
To boot, and boot!
It is the most impenetrable cur
A trembling contribution! Why, we take
He beats thee 'gainst the odds: thy lustre thickens,
It is shaped, sir, like itself; and it is as broad
Old Signior Gremio has in Padua;
Good night then, Casca: this disturbed sky
The time, the place, the torture: O, enforce it!
these you may avoid but the Lie Direct; and you may
Return again, and take an oath with thee.
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
And thus I seal my truth, and bid adieu.
Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.
eruptions and sudden breaking out of mirth, as it
You have prevailed: I will depart in quiet,
Singing
And now baits me! This brat is none of mine;
You did supplant your brother Prospero.
And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
Transport her purposes by word? Belike,
This is most certain that I shall deliver:
By heaven, I will,
bigger than pins' heads, and they have bought out
To do him all the grace and good I could.
A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
no desires.
You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
a pair of strange ones.
On that celestial harmony I go to.
Words, life and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
Withhold thine indignation, mighty heaven,
and give it his son for an apple.
All things that you should use to do me wrong
Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
Enter BASSANIO and SHYLOCK
We lose the better half of our possession:
See'st thou this object, Kent?
We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow:
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
What, John! Robert! John!
Enter OXFORD, with drum and colours
thy assailant is quick, skilful and deadly.
Well, sir, I will. Have you the chain about you?
There shall no figure at such rate be set
Time to be honest.
This stage the ship, upon whose deck
state, which since his coming forth is thought
The broken rancour of your high-swoln hearts,
Which makes me hope you are not void of pity.
Yon knight doth sit too melancholy,
Nor cease his flow of riot: takes no account
Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour.
I cannot choose
Made all of false-faced soothing!
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
My lord?
fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
We are all undone.
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
By the north pole, I do challenge thee.
Becomes a fear, as being o'erpower'd: therefore
I wish I had a cause to seek him there,
And tell his wife that, being lunatic,
And may not be performed by thyself,
But, thus much, they are foul ones.
And well he might so do,
I'll leave you, lady.
In thy fats our cares be drown'd,
But dawning day new comfort hath inspired.
A troop of horse with felt: I'll put 't in proof;
And once more in mine arms I bid him welcome,
What 'twere to lose it, and be miserable!
God knows I will not do it, to the death.
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin
Enter ROSALIND, with a paper, reading
Exeunt
That wear those colours on them: what art thou,
So to be valiant is no praise at all.
Believe me, queen, your swarth Cimmerian
Soft! here he comes: I must dissemble it.
Here, Peter Quince.
And did not I in rage depart from thence?
We'll mingle our bloods together in the earth,
Who must hang them?
When he is here, even at thy solemn feast,
O my dread lord,
A cold premeditation for my purpose!
That you would wear it till your hour of death
A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius
You say well.
SCENE VII. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Not mine, in good sooth.
Grave witnesses of true experience,
Mislike me not for my complexion,
Undo that prayer, by crying out as loud,
And all the courses of my life do show
ANTIPHOLUS
Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel.
O, no! alas, I rather hate myself
Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children;
The Dauphin, whom of succors we entreated,
I will not tarry; no, nor ever more
The princes both make high account of you;
hinder not the honour of his design: let him fetch
For Italy and Caesar. More, Domitius;
Thus Rosalind of many parts
This I wonder at,
SCENE V. The same. Before SHYLOCK'S house.
One word in secret.
That both should speed?
These counties were the keys of Normandy.
Sir John Bracy from your father; you must to the
Exeunt all except BENEDICK and CLAUDIO
Why, true; he means to make a puppet of thee.
Exit
Of the adjacent wharfs. The city cast
He's a-birding, sweet Sir John.
Betwixt myself and her; which was broke off,
If he were seated as King Edward is.
To BARDOLPH
Here 'tis.
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
[Aside]  And yet I must.--Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
supper to him, of purpose to have him spend less,
My lord, we were sent for.
Get you gone, sirrah.
Good morrow, ladies. What were't worth to know
Nay, after that, consume away in rust
As in offence.
My sovereign liege, I do beseech your majesty
What art thou?
At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at midnight,
Which I will practise.
A most auspicious star, whose influence
Exeunt
better acquainted.
I' th' afternoon to sleep: there thou mayst brain him,
Of thy success in love, and what news else
No such jade as you, if me you mean.
Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
For we must measure twenty miles to-day.
Master Slender had her; or, in sooth, I would Master
The hart.
Did lack a parallel; yet for all that
to the ground and list if thou canst hear the tread
So do not I: go, coward as thou art.
love; wherein, by the colour of his beard, the shape
And that will well confirm it.
Peasant, unless thou give me crowns, brave crowns;
Nobody; I myself. Farewell
Rascals should have 't. Do not assume my likeness.
Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian.
Although thy breath be rude.
His neck will come to your waist,--a cord, sir.
Avoid what's grown than question how 'tis born.
Exeunt
Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
ACT IV
The younges t daughter whom you hearken for
If you would grant the time.
And then down falls again.
They call him Troilus, and on him erect
Master, is this Mistress Satan?
Can it be possible that no man saw them?
And princes' courts be fill'd with my reproach.
If for his tender here I make some stay.
according to Fates and Destinies and such odd
Therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize;
and scoured.
Good faith, I am no wiser than a daw.
But as well? then you are mad indeed, if you be no
grave of it.
O loyal father of a treacherous son!
I shall find you anon.
We bodged again; as I have seen a swan
By such a day and hour.
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
This speech of yours hath moved me,
liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
What though I be enthrall'd? he seems a knight,
Come hither, herald,--Let the trumpet sound,
a Dutchman today, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the
Ay, there, there.
Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your
And, at his pleasure, will resign my place.
A more satiety of commendations.
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
How does the boy?
Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect
A conduct over-land to Milford-Haven.
In some large measure to thy father's death,
Do one thing for me that I shall entreat.
for mine own part, I durst not laugh, for fear of
My bond to wedlock, or my love and duty,
A calf, fair lady!
And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life!
Meet in one line; and vast confusion waits,
Nor you, Lorenzo; Jessica, nor you.
He cuts their throats
Enter another Messenger
Stay yet, Lord Salisbury; I'll go with thee,
Alas, that Warwick had no more forecast,
That is my bed too, lads, an there I'll lie:
Whereof the world takes note: come, come, disclose
Ay, come; quick.
And smooth as monumental alabaster.
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
To drench the Capitol; but that they would
I thank his grace, I know he loves me well;
But with them change of honours.
Save our deposed bodies to the ground?
I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd
Thou canst not come to me: I come to thee.
Jove!
To England's king in lawful marriage.
on crutches till he had one.
Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
these gifts a curtain before 'em? are they like to
A proper man.
Enter NORFOLK at one door; at the other, BUCKINGHAM and ABERGAVENNY
for such store,
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
To save unscratch'd your city's threatened cheeks,
gives a good report to a number to be chaste.
Eating the flesh that she herself hath bred.
commodities upon our bills?
All murders past do stand excused in this:
Nay, do not fright us with an angry look;
Then all too late comes counsel to be heard,
Will shun no course to keep them from the light.
My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
O well a day, Lady, if he be not drawn now! we
is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.
Sir, by your patience,
That thus we die, while remiss traitors sleep.
All covered dishes!
And the remembrancer of her to hold
I am not bid to wait upon this bride.
And tender preservation of our person,
There's many a beast then in a populous city,
This night forestall him of the coming day!
These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks.
lose thee nothing; do it carefully. And the
I have made my way through more impediments
We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down,
Exit
Thou see'st these lovers seek a place to fight:
Exeunt
O, here I lift this one hand up to heaven,
Noble she is, but if she have forgot
For if they could, Cupid himself would blush
Hold unbewail'd their way. Welcome to Rome;
Why, this it is, when men are ruled by women:
for though she's as like this as a crab's like an
Alarum continues
And therefore level not to hit their lives.
Jeweller: You know me, Apemantus?
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
That hast deceived so many with thy vows?
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy.
A right description of our sport, my lord.
I owe you none till I receive the chain.
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
Re-enter Executioners, with a cord, irons,  and c
hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
'Say, the firm Roman to great Egypt sends
And thou, too careless patient as thou art,
For if the Jew do cut but deep enough,
The seas and winds, old wranglers, took a truce
And, ten to one, you'll meet him in the Tower.
Be patient, they are friends, Ratcliff and Lovel.
And consequently, like a traitor coward,
Sell every man his life as dear as mine,
Something; and scarce so much: nothing, indeed.
Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!
'Come on, you cowards! you were got in fear,
She is i' the rear our birth.
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest
You may, by marrying.
Their papers, is more lawful.
Exeunt
At your den, sirrah, with your lioness
May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother;
God should be so obdurate as yourselves,
Added to their familiarity,
ACT IV
Now God in heaven forbid!
No, noble Ajax; you are as strong, as valiant, as
His grace not being warn'd thereof before:
be made parchment? that parchment, being scribbled
I confess the cape.
To make a false one.
As, though on thinking on no thought I think,
Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns
And so let's leave her to her silent walks.
Which is the lady I must seize upon?
Knocking within
Our general doth salute you with a kiss.
if it be nothing, I shall not need spectacles.
Into your guiding power. This is the man.
Is there no exorcist
And Henry put apart, the next for me.
And love thee after. One more, and this the last:
And hath detain'd me all my flowering youth
[Aside]  One of Lord Timon's men? a gift, I
Of no more force to dispossess me, sir,
That I shall make this northern youth exchange
And public reasons shall be rendered
I'll beat thee, but I should infect my hands.
county. What fashion will you wear the garland of?
and, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be,
I never saw my father in my life.
Make mouths upon me when I turn my back;
'Tis Joan, not we, by whom the day is won;
your worship, and my suit is--
war, no taxation of homage: I hold the olive in my
The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on.
As in the prizer: 'tis mad idolatry
I was, an't like your majesty.
Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
And all the fair effects of future hopes.
Are yet two Romans living such as these?
Hath such force and blessed power.
We would not understand what was most fit;
stocks for puddings he hath stolen, otherwise he had
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
There is no more such masters: I may wander
general, that, upon certain tidings now arrived,
What pleasure was he given to?
Your master's mistress.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, attended
O, pray, let's see't: for the Lord Timon, sir?
Convey him hence and on our longboat's side
Think'st thou I am an executioner?
Marry, the son of my grandfather.
I'll tell you true. I'll call to you.
By'r lakin, I can go no further, sir;
Would make such fearful and confused cries
I know young bloods look for a time of rest.
help! I had rather than forty pound I were at home.
I'll give you gold enough.
Tell me, moreover, hast thou sounded him,
He is dead and gone;
'school,' 'fool,' a babbling rhyme; very ominous
Exeunt DOCTOR CAIUS and RUGBY
Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
But sanctuary children ne'er till now.
By'r lakin, a parlous fear.
Taste of your wine and see what cates you have;
Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
A pond as deep as hell.
As likely to be blest in peace and war;
Can he be there in person? 'tis impossible;
Nay, hated too, worse than the great'st infection
Die in his youth by like untimely violence!
That had to him derived your anger, did I
You.
goose: but all's brave that youth mounts and folly
Where this is question'd send our letters, with
Why, here's a girl! I think she knows not well,
Your children shall be kings.
Enter BEVIS, with Lord SAY
For, if you should, O, what would come of it!
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
Hath not a tomb so evident as a chair
The soldier that did company these three
That I was sent for nothing but a rope!
That I gainsay my deed, how may he wound,
his goods:' right; many a man has good horns, and
Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat?
Gives me this instance: already he hath carried
Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
For those that mingle reason with your passion
Titus, unkind and careless of thine own,
Exeunt Lords
For never anything can be amiss,
Succeed before the younger, I am king.
Therefore, for God's sake, entertain good comfort,
Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance:
Exit CATESBY
Made issue from the bosom of the boy;
Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a
And when thou find'st a man that's like thyself.
Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
In this your cousin's death.
Or look on thine; we could not stall together
I have more cause to hate him than to love him:
willingly, let him make a carbonado of me. I like
I speak too long; but 'tis to peize the time,
So do each lord, and either greet him not,
Why, that's the lady; all the world desires her;
First, tell me, have you ever been at Pisa?
Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
The glove which I have given him for a favour
I will no more enforce mine office on you.
But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
Exit
O, be to me, though thy hard heart say no,
Where thou shalt live, till we can find a time
That I will, by to-morrow dinner-time,
But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds,
'D sol re,' one clef, two notes have I:
But not by him.
Or nature makes me suddenly relent.
Depose him in the justice of his cause.
Where powers are your retainers, and your words,
Indifferent.
Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
O my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!
Visit both prince and people: therefore, I prithee,
But, sure, he's proud, and yet his pride becomes him:
down an ass! But, masters, remember that I am an
It fits we thus proceed, or else no witness
Enter EDGAR
Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange, that is the
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
Whiles it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio:
Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to
excellent perfume.
Never?
good troth,
I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle.
cruelly. If ever thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a
Now these her princes are come home again,
Hark, how Troy roars! how Hecuba cries out!
4. Choristers, singing.
But yet come not: you are a tame man, go!
and she's a great lubberly boy. If it had not been
Too good to be so and too bad to live,
SCENE I. Cyprus. A street.
Itself with strength: seal then, and all is done.
But there I leave to love where I should love.
May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two
Steps aside
The most convenient place that I can think of
The whole realm, by your teaching and your chaplains,
Exit Servant
Command, I mean, of virtuous chaste intents,
Of their observant toil the enemies' weight,--
What means he now? Go ask him whither he goes.
ACT I
To save a paltry life and slay bright fame,
Exit
If it were so that our request did tend
My rest and negligence befriends thee now,
If tinkers may have leave to live,
he was a man. But I will forward with my device.
staff understands me.
washing her hands: I have known her continue in
Still have I borne it with a patient shrug,
The noble ruin of her magic, Antony,
Postures beyond brief nature, for condition,
'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.--
'Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him:
Turn head, and stop pursuit; for coward dogs
He did unseal them: and the first he view'd,
you not see you move him? let me alone with him.
As for thee, boy, go get thee from my sight;
Look on my forces with a gracious eye;
I have made strong proof of my constancy,
Bury him where you can; he comes not here.
Pursue him, ho! Go after.
Their precious stones new lost: became his guide,
Our shame perpetual. Once a day I'll visit
The noblest hateful love, that e'er I heard of.
Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.
For terror, not to use, in time the rod
Relieved him with such sanctity of love,
perfecter giber for the table than a necessary
As for my sons, say I account of them
And thus my battle shall be ordered:
Must find love's prick and Rosalind.
Against the word:
Sole imperator and great general
Could send such message to their sovereign:
For it appears, by manifest proceeding,
Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint;
What he cannot help in his nature, you account a
Mistress, both man and master is possess'd;
The anger of the king nor guilty of,
I have broke your hest to say so!
Exeunt
He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
Good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother.
But, hark thee; I will go to her alone:
your turns;
Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale and with
Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully;
And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
But only she; and she deserves a lord
picture; and what I saw, to my good use I
To let him there a month behind the gest
Richard except, those whom we fight against
Both by myself and many other friends:
Well, sir, I thank you.
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
O, you shall be exposed, my lord, to dangers
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
That ever kept with men.
And there I stood amazed for a while,
You must not put another scandal on him,
Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable:
Creep into acorn-cups and hide them there.
Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
The air hath got into my deadly wounds,
In faith, it is exceedingly well aim'd.
Of Murray, Angus, and Menteith:
This goodly summer with your winter mix'd.
I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
SCENE XII. Another part of the same.
My noble lord, from Eastcheap.
Become a deluge, overflow'd and drown'd;
Marry, for Justice, she is so employ'd,
Thou counterfeit to thy true friend!
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
be one! Hush! here come the lords of Tyre.
Flourish. Enter CAESAR; ANTONY, for the course;  CALPURNIA, PORTIA, DECIUS BRUTUS, CICERO, BRUTUS,  CASSIUS, and CASCA; a great crowd following, among them a Soothsayer
But metal, Marcus, steel to the very back,
For he went sickly forth: and take good note
business as I shall find means and acquaint you withal.
O, temperance, lady!
to a second, that have so mightily persuaded him
The time is troublesome.
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago:
Come, go: I will fall prostrate at his feet
Here's to my love!
than a Christian or an ordinary man has: but I am a
It were dishonour to deny it her.
Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies?
Bold of your worthiness, we single you
Doth this man serve God?
Than seek the end of one, thou shalt no sooner
I prithee, who doth he trot withal?
The virtuous lady, Countess of Auvergne,
Five days we do allot thee, for provision
What business, lord, so early?
But, either it was different in blood,--
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?
And, lozel, thou art worthy to be hang'd,
Fools on both sides! Helen must needs be fair,
on the death of the deer? And, to humour the
Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
ends my catechism.
Excellent! Your lordship's a goodly villain. The
A little daughter: for the sake of it,
and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws,
They do suggest at first with heavenly shows,
In what part of your body pleaseth me.
They shall go far with little.
With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere
Burn itself out. If Edgar live, O, bless him!
E'er since pursue me.
He was as calm as virtue--he began
Hereafter time, for time past wrong'd by thee.
Mean to establish Caesar as a king;
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
Deserve we no more reverence?
father was called Philip of Macedon, as I take it.
you;--and thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce
As those that fear they hope, and know they fear.
Her reason to herself is only known,
If she be in her chamber or your house,
a puppet of her.
What, ho, Pilch!
I'd shake it on this quarrel. What do you mean?
And taste Lord Timon's bounty? he outgoes
Which by my knowledge found, the sinful father
With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.
Is he at home?
Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace
Unveiling
To weep at what I am glad of.
I do not know from what part of the world
To the Fool
Promised to Harry and his followers.
Lay sleeping on his back: about his neck
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
For I am sorry that with reverence
do, not knowing what they do!
Boy, let me see the writing.
man; prove it.
Strike a free march to Troy! with comfort go:
My master preaches patience to him and the while
Thy death, which is no more. Thou art not thyself;
'Tis so; and that self chain about his neck
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence
O God, which this blood madest, revenge his death!
And, worthy warrior, welcome to our tents.
I pray you, sir, go forth,
Or for some frontier?
and spin it off.
I am, in this, commanded to deliver
And champion me to the utterance! Who's there!
O Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!
Good bawcock, bate thy rage; use lenity, sweet chuck!
valour is discretion; in the which better part I
Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds,
Camillo has betray'd me;
For I am sick when I do look on thee.
And, from the extremest upward of thy head
They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command.
And but one word with one of us? couple it with
His welcomes forth; asks thee the son forgiveness,
So out of thought, and thereto so o'ergrown,
To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
False blood to false blood join'd! gone to be friends!
Of prey that keep upon't.
Where should he have this gold? It is some poor
Grandam, I will not wish thy fortunes thrive:
Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.
Which first, perchance, she'll prove on
Enter Keeper, with a dish
A fair name. Wast born i' the forest here?
Without more motive, into every brain
Enter TITUS, MARCUS, LAVINIA and Young LUCIUS, a boy
To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester?
Without annoying me: and there were drawn
Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
on 't, Jove; a foul fault! When gods have hot
Deliver it to Madam Silvia:
You scarce can right me throughly then to say
thy face: and all this done, spurn her home to her
Tush, Gremio, though it pass your patience and mine
when he is worst, he is little better than a beast:
Who is it?
It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
I shall obey him.
What glory our Achilles shares from Hector,
They are harsh and heavy to me.
Does she love him?
I will go before, sir. Mistress, look out at
Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear
that he was, and that the king was an usurper.
Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
your worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
And all the rest o' the fleet.
Blows in your face. I fear your disposition:
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare,
N'avez vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne?
I saw him down; thrice up again and fighting;
My accuser is my 'prentice; and when I did correct
Peace, ho!
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
Derive some pain from you: plague all;
You see we have burnt our cheeks: strong Enobarb
Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate,
heal your pate.
O'ercome you with her show, and in time,
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
Pardon me, royal sir;
mouths, sir.'
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
Write them together, yours is as fair a name;
They'll open of themselves.
Signior Antonio!
master parson; who writes himself 'Armigero,' in any
If the scarce-bearded Caesar have not sent
The thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict;
And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on
But he that temper'd thee bade thee stand up,
Above the reach or compass of thy thought?
nothing doubt you have store of thieves;
With this, my weapon drawn, I rush'd upon him,
Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort
My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul,
like a wood woman! Well, I kiss her; why, there
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET,  PRINCE EDWARD, CLIFFORD, and NORTHUMBERLAND, with drum and trumpets
Leaving no tract behind.
You shall yourself read in the bitter letter
Have you the lion's part written? pray you, if it
But, in the wind and tempest of her frown,
Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in woman.
Antonio is a good man.
Our old and faithful friend, we are glad to see you.
For swallowing the treasure of the realm:
For the letter that begins them all, H.
When that I say the city-woman bears
And made her widow to a woful bed?
Nay, I prithee now with most petitionary vehemence,
We are so virtuously bound--
If Somerset be unworthy of the place,
Bocchus, the king of Libya; Archelaus,
Had not a show might countervail his worth.
As I am sure they do, bear fire enough
I will be free from thee. What wouldst thou now? If
not be long; that the time may have all shadow and
It hath struck.
Might fire the blood of ordinary men,
The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss,
Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and IACHIMO
And with the half-blown rose. But Fortune, O,
Too modest are you;
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,
Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
Shall we send that foolish carrion, Mistress
And crown you king of this day's happiness.
Speak frankly as the wind;
Our son shall win.
We'll have dancing afterward.
And must we be divided? must we part?
been troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank God
Exeunt
My friend Polixenes: which had been done,
If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear.
The villain would not stand me.
O, is this he?
Not used to toil, did almost sweat to bear
A plague upon him! muffled! he can say nothing of
master, be not afraid.
My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours:
Is full of weeds, her fairest flowers choked up,
great as the first in goodness, but greater a great
And take a lodging fit to entertain
Sir, know you this glove?
When thou wast here above the ground, I was
Come, will you go?
Your fathers taken by the silver beards,
Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd
Dead? or asleep? I see no blood, no wound.
For still her cheeks possess the same
Were tried by every tongue, every eye saw 'em,
I do beseech your majesty, impute his words
Sir Thurio, give us leave, I pray, awhile;
I have fair meanings, sir.
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.
My former speeches have but hit your thoughts,
Bowing his head against the sleepy mount
Who!
Now let him speak: 'tis charity to show.
Were I chief lord of all this spacious world,
Exeunt
Marry, sir, she's the kitchen wench and all grease;
That takes away by any secret course
I am content; so he will let me have
And I myself see not the bottom of it.
If crooked fortune had not thwarted me.
Praying for both parts:
Enter SATURNINUS and TAMORA, with AEMILIUS, Tribunes, Senators, and others
And all we mourn for.
Hark ye;
That shall be by and by: I remember the story.
He loses hearts: Lepidus flatters both,
To enter our Rome gates: i' the people's name,
You have been noble towards her.
Dies
Doth want example: who hath read or heard
Well, think of marriage now; younger than you,
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.
ACT V
By heaven, it shall not go!
And now, forsooth, takes on him to reform
Then go successantly, and plead to him.
Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on--
Hath the count all this intelligence?
Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest.
Can any face of brass hold longer out?
Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom,
Trust me, he beat him most pitifully.
chance to fail, he hath sentenced himself.
Poor Tom; that eats the swimming frog, the toad,
I am for France.
SCENE IV. Windsor Park.
Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood,
yet would have dark deeds darkly answered; he would
Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read
Bless our poor virginity from underminers and
I am content to hear; for 'tis as easy
Since thou, created to be awed by man,
physician, and Sir Hugh hath shown himself a wise
Would then be nothing: truths would be tales,
And I for winking at your discords too
SCENE I. Westminster Hall.
He thinks, with Jove in heaven, or somewhere else,
And Cydnus swell'd above the banks, or for
You would have thought the very windows spake,
There is no news, my lord, but that he writes
I'll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay
more of your matter before the King.
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
And shortly must I fell it: tell my friends,
DON
And I, as I love Hastings with my heart!
And they have seized Marina. Let her go:
Were still at odds, being but three.
bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from
And pluck the wings from Painted butterflies
Must be the mistress to this theoric:
Against this proud protector, with my sword!
of Queen Hermione's, her jewel about the neck of it,
So mainly as my merit: I cannot sing,
enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to
The gods will diet me with. Prithee, away:
Where is my gracious Lord of Canterbury?
A better ear. Menas, I did not think
Peace, you ungracious clamours! peace, rude sounds!
Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's
Beshrew me, I would,
father died at Hallowmas: was't not at Hallowmas,
A portly sail of ships make hitherward.
In their assign'd and native dwelling-place.
He is wise, sir; he knew your worship would kill
This is Pisanio's deed, and Cloten's: O!
I hope thou wilt.
And let their heirs, God, if thy will be so.
I will away towards Barnet presently,
Come, if the emperor's court can feast two brides,
That your activity may defeat and quell
Thou art a Castalion-King-Urinal. Hector of Greece, my boy!
Wherein I sigh not, Julia, for thy sake,
Flatterers! Now, Brutus, thank yourself:
Is not yond Diomed, with Calchas' daughter?
capable creature.
An honest, willing, kind fellow, as ever servant
You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.
Exeunt
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
I have done, i' faith.
Made glory base and sovereignty a slave,
'Tis but her picture I have yet beheld,
graces be in one woman, one woman shall not come in
And so farewell and thrive.
Let death and honesty
Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
Give him that parting kiss which I had set
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
My fleece of woolly hair that now uncurls
Exit
Your honour knows what 'tis to say well enough.
like a poor man's right in the law; 'twill hardly
Who bids thee call? I do not bid thee call.
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
Naught rests for me in this tumultuous strife
You whoreson villain! will you let it fall?
Our content
Music. The witches dance and then vanish, with HECATE
I tore them from their bonds and cried aloud
thou lookest cheerly, and I'll be with thee quickly.
For such a sight will blind a father's eye:
Or needs not us. If Caesar please, our master
All you that see her, that she were a maid,
And spurn me back: but if it be not so,
workman, a very good tailor.
Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you
O brother, speak with possibilities,
Fear not, my lord, I'll play the orator
Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee
Shall we go throw away our coats of steel,
Speaks his own standing! what a mental power
Ay, but to die, and go we know not where;
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
No, foolish tribune, no; no son of mine,
With half their forces the full Pride of France
Yet one thing more, good Blunt, before thou go'st,
precious, precious jewels. I would my daughter
Knowing by Paulina that the oracle
Give with thy trumpet a loud note to Troy,
Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart;
I have with exact view perused thee, Hector,
How fares my lord? speak, Beaufort, to
How now shall this be compassed?
a muffler and a kerchief, and so escape.
Which serve not for his vantage, be shakes off;
Tied it by letters-patents: now, who'll take it?
Mine eyes are not o' the best: I'll tell you straight.
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
'But for mine own part, my lord, I could be well
Hast thou gold yet? I'll take the gold thou
That I in all despite might rail at him,
Your highness bade me ask for it to-day.
that time; and some say knives have edges. It must
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
And not to us, but to thy arm alone,
That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous
Commend them and condemn them to her service
I will not struggle, I will stand stone-still.
What does the tyrant?
And very wisely threat before you sting.
I think, thy horse will sooner con an oration than
That best know how to rule and how to reign,
The only son of your great enemy.
I find in hardness, and do undertake
Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
There tell the king he may inquire us out.
Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
That calls me traitor, I return the lie.
Is't possible?
So wish I, I might thrust thy soul to hell.
Now are we well prepared to know the pleasure
Whereof by parcels she had something heard,
Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
Well run, Thisbe.
Which can distinguish sound.
From off these fields, where, wretches, their poor bodies
Where is this viper
Enter MONTAGUE and others
And help the joy.
I dare your worst objections: if I blush,
Unto a dunghill which shall be thy grave,
peacock's feather. You'll never trust his word
Withdraw with us: and let the trumpets sound
Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
And pull her out of Acheron by the heels.
Meantime the court shall hear Bellario's letter.
Exit SALISBURY
Why, thou hast put him in such a dream, that when
Is much more general than these lines import.
Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast,
The scepter'd office of your ancestors,
I have already delivered him letters, and there
Whose womb unmeasurable, and infinite breast,
There is one Mistress Ford, sir:--I pray, come a
For she is changed, as she had never been.
To Henry's body, and supply his place;
Though Cambridge, Scroop and Grey, in their dear care
Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong,
Let me but move one question to your daughter;
A thievish living on the common road?
Of mortal breathing: seize it, if thou darest.
Both thanks and use. But I do bend my speech
Knavery's plain face is never seen tin used.
our princess English?
Tell him his fears are shallow, wanting instance:
Have you so soon forgot the entertainment
A little cloth.
You speak too bitterly.
How earnestly they knock! Pray you, come in:
That, knowing sin within, will touch the gate.
For 'tis thy rival. O thou senseless form,
By being in his eye. Most gracious duke,
That I may call thee something more than man
silks betray thy poor heart to woman: keep thy foot
Now, Richard, I am with thee here alone:
But truly, I do fear it.
That's by me wounded: both our remedies
With giving him glory.
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
painted also with a wheel, to signify to you, which
For all your fair endeavors; and entreat,
So to offend him still. This night's the time
Exit
I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman
That you stand pensive, as half malcontent?
Send word to you he would be there to-morrow.
find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain
Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
Suspect me, that I mean no good to him:
That's clapp'd upon the court-gate.
Myself thus alter'd with 't.
[Within]  Brother Troilus!
They should not laugh if I could reach them, nor
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
Not as you served the cause, but as 't had been
A queen in jest, only to fill the scene.
Besides these, other bars he lays before me,
any, freely give unto you this young scholar,
They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for?
Have with you. You'll come to dinner, George.
What see you in those papers that you lose
Prize you yourselves: what buys your company?
questions in his accidence.
Juno sings her blessings upon you.
As mine own face. If there be cords, or knives,
Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
Here's too much 'out upon thee!' I pray thee,
Whom once more I present unto your highness.
I saw no man use you a pleasure; if I had, my weapon
Masterly done:
Though this be all, do not so quickly go;
Which even but now, demanding after you,
Read.
Scandal'd the suppliants for the people, call'd them
I'll show your grace the strangest sight--
From wayward sickness, and no grounded malice.
entail from all remainders, and a perpetual
And then, to purge his fear, I'll be thy death.
And I am witness with her that she did.
That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus,
To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day!
My children too?
Stand aye accursed in the calendar!
You are not worth the dust which the rude wind
Hark, Polydore, it sounds! But what occasion
This case of that huge spirit now is cold:
His beard was grizzled--no?
I would we had a thousand Roman dames
How know you that?
Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler; no bolts for the dead.
a coranto? My very walk should be a jig; I would not
imposed upon his father that sent him: or if a
And be in Padua here Vincentio's son,
They do it but in mocking merriment;
Enter PHILARIO, IACHIMO, a Frenchman, a Dutchman, and a Spaniard
Sleeping or waking, 'tis no matter how,
Intends his journey; and within three days
on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of
words; and therefore I will say nothing: I thank
They were again together: you have done
To-day the lords you talk of are beheaded.
As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
Enter LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
charity to my wit: do not think it so unwholesome.
This likewise is a friend.
It may be so; but yet my inward soul
Let us be jocund: will you troll the catch
And think how such an apprehension
Enter YORK, WARWICK, and others
her to rise.
For none offend where all alike do dote.
That other men begin.
Ha, ha, ha!
Thou'rt an emperor, Caesar, Keisar, and Pheezar. I
Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
Sir, sir, impatience hath his privilege.
Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind;
The region of my heart: be Kent unmannerly,
Bench by his side:
Are landed on your coast, with a supply
We are yet but young in deed.
[Above]  O my lord!
If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me:
Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in
That any purblind eye may find it out.
SCENE III. Another room in the castle.
Advanced in time to great and high estate,
And, as we walk along, I dare be bold
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
Then, if you fight against God's enemy,
Of Charles the Great. Also King Lewis the Tenth,
More nor less to others paying
Thou shalt not need. England, I will fall from thee.
Exeunt
But that of hand: the still and mental parts,
Yet now farewell; and farewell life with thee!
never take her without her answer, unless you take
Come hither, captain; hark.
Ensues his piteous and unpitied end:
I'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.
come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Well said!
Nay, never bear me hence, dispatch me here,
to seek you both.
When all, for mine, if I may call offence,
But when goes this forward?
It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue.
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
Told me, the king, provoked by the queen,
Enter HASTINGS
Enter VIOLA, a Captain, and Sailors
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense
Should be maintain'd, assembled and collected,
The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
Most sincerely.
But being watch'd that it may still go right!
Such poor, such bare, such lewd, such mean attempts,
Or been reguerdon'd with so much as thanks,
ACT IV
rib-breaking? Shall we see this wrestling, cousin?
Who shall stay you?
That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
Your virtue is my privilege: for that
What 'her' is this?
Exit
what a wardrobe here is for thee!
Most royal sir,
Enter COUNTESS, Steward, and Clown
There's something in't,
True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.
Well, Syracusian, say in brief the cause
She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
Come, sir.
And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
Exeunt
'Seese' and 'putter'! have I lived to stand at the
In sight of God and us, your guilt is great:
women's modesty; and gave such orderly and
But come at once;
Enter EDWARD and RICHARD
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
'Those runagates!'
'Gainst him whose wrong gives edge unto the swords
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
Your holy hat to be stamp'd on the king's coin.
Enter PORTIA
Too light for such a swain as you to catch;
What says the silver with her virgin hue?
Witness the sorrow that their sister makes.
The thoughts of others! Pray you, tell me this;
Yet, know thou, since we have begun to strike,
Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me:
For well you know we of the offering side
If you had been the wife of Hercules,
And your fair show shall suck away their souls,
ANDREW AGUECHEEK.
O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
Is a plain fish, and, no doubt, marketable.
Good Maria, let this fellow be looked to. Where's
This judgment of the heavens, that makes us tremble,
her look, or any woman else.
Yes, worthy sir,
As gaming, my lord.
And he whose wife is most obedient
To thrust the lie unto him.
Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow;
Thou hast the sweetest face I ever look'd on.
Where should he find it purer than in Blanch?
Re-enter PISANIO, with the clothes
Happy is your grace,
The spouse of any noble gentleman.
And made a prey for carrion kites and crows
I'll wait upon them: I am ready.
Is there none here to give the woman?
Lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose,
You are their heir; you sit upon their throne;
was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
That I was not ignoble of descent;
Exeunt
Fear me not.
Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves:
Enter AARON, with a bag of gold
Exeunt
For which we have in head assembled them?
I bear i' the state; and nature does require
To stranger blood, to foreign royalty.
Takes note of what is done; and, like a prophet,
Well, I will do it, sir: fare you well.
I find my zenith doth depend upon
And mock us with our bareness.
There was a lady once, 'tis an old story,
themselves without the verse and therefore stood
That once was mistress of the field and flourish'd,
Nay, that's certain; they that dally nicely with
Marry, I fare well for here is cheer enough.
So, so, we draw together.
Did, as he vouches, misreport your grace.
I have heard, sir, of such a man, who hath a
untie. Here comes Patroclus.
My master, not myself, lacks recompense.
in him than there is milk in a male tiger; that
Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch
I'll be the first, sure.
Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
Enthroned i' the market-place, did sit alone,
It is both he and she;
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
My name is Proculeius.
Aside
What are you, sir?
On you or yours,
Farewell, farewell:
Than you to punish.
and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to
My father had a mole upon his brow.
I'll tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife
Of what is past.
Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
Turn all to the best! These proclamations,
Between our sovereign and the French king Charles,
Melt and no more be seen. O, come, be buried
Blanket my loins: elf all my hair in knots;
See, brother, see; note how she quotes the leaves.
I shall report it so.
The common voice, I see, is verified
them with a most Christian-like fear.
There is another friar that set them on;
Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,
But thither would I hie.
Crying, 'That's good that's gone.' Our rash faults
If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand.
Does change my disposition.
She is desperate here; a peevish self-wind harlotry,
in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.
You say true:
Two or three groan: it is a heavy night:
Herald, conduct me to the Dauphin's tent,
Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
That one meets Hector; if none else, I am he.
From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother:
Shall we, upon the footing of our land,
Nay, but it is not so.
What, is there a maid with child by him?
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
His forces strong, his soldiers confident.
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself;
It is too starved a subject for my sword.
Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
Exeunt
Deal between thee and me! for even now
frailty. You confess then, you picked my pocket?
Nay you must call me Rosalind. Come, sister, will you go?
The viol once more: how thou stirr'st, thou block!
Your will?
What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
Know you where your are, sir?
Peace, silence! Brutus speaks.
such difference betwixt their two estates; Love no
Ha?
But that, it seems, he little purposeth,
We sweat and bleed: the friend hath lost his friend;
As flowers with frost or grass beat down with storms:
Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing-while,
And with the brands fire the traitors' houses.
And the blots of Nature's hand
I have a kind of self resides with you;
the boy never need to understand any thing; for
To them the legions garrison'd in Gailia,
Was once superfluous: you were crown'd before,
thousand watches.
This comes too near the praising of myself;
This man said, sir, that Don John, the prince's
If you will make't an action, call witness to't.
Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, and COMINIUS, with Senators and Patricians
There's not a minute of our lives should stretch
Enter Corporal NYM and Lieutenant BARDOLPH
To beg of Hob and Dick, that do appear,
In entertainment to my princely queen.
Open your purse, that the money and the matter may
Mine own, and not mine own.
See you where Benedick hath hid himself?
Loved Mall, Meg and Marian and Margery,
O, I should have a heavy miss of thee,
he so takes on yonder with my husband; so rails
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
Base dunghill villain and mechanical,
I could do nothing without bidding.
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter Outlaws with SILVIA
I am thus resolved: on Sunday next you know
Lo, here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword;
Upon what cause?
We shall,
I think would better please 'em: by my life,
Than fall, and bruise to death. Alas, this gentleman
O weary night, O long and tedious night,
A deed of death done on the innocent
Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!
And die in terror of thy guiltiness!
And how my men will stay themselves from laughter
Whom Fortune with her ivory hand wafts to her;
had the maidenliest star in the firmament
True, worthy Banquo; he is full so valiant,
Come, other sorts offend as well as we.
Caesar doth bear me hard; but he loves Brutus:
have them this morning examined before your worship.
You should have said, sir, before a knave thou'rt a
To make my small elves coats, and some keep back
and at his heels a rabble of his companions, thither
By thee was punched full of deadly holes
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
Say to me,
What! to you,
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
warrant, her rags and the tallow in them will burn a
Make that thy question, and go rot!
Exeunt Worthies
The gods confound thee! dost thou hold there still?
Would feed on one another? What's their seeking?
Why, what's the matter?
will not be seen; or if she be, it's four to one
For what I will, I will, and there an end.
And this is he that did the Tiger board,
three days his head to be chopped off.
I would not have him know so much by me.
Do not forget: this visitation
O, no! the apprehension of the good
To points that seem impossible; for thou look'st
cow short horns;' but to a cow too curst he sends none.
Charmian!
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear.
Of him that brought them.
Exeunt
No? you say your husband.
Let Antony look over Caesar's head
worthy to live. Thou dost ride in a foot-cloth, dost thou not?
Thy noble brother Titus and his sons,
You witch me in it;
Alencon, Brabant, Bar, and Burgundy;
I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
Than such a Roman.
Fare ye well:
Grows strong and great in substance and in power.
Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report
O, flatter me; for love delights in praises.
rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though
Be pilot to me and thy places shall
Nor Cymbeline dreams that they are alive.
With daily prayers all to that effect.
Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
Of thy nativity! I would the milk
A heart of wreak in thee, that wilt revenge
are, you must have the patience to hear it.
If thou, that bid'st me be content, wert grim,
Ay, God Almighty help me!
Shall I dash out. Go, take it to the fire;
If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife,
And for thy treachery, what's more manifest?
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Why at this time the doors are made against you.
In countenance somewhat doth resemble you.
As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.
Unto Diana there a votaress.
Not yet on summer's death, nor on the birth
Where is that viper? bring the villain forth.
good night, good night.
Like a phantasma, or a hideous dream:
Why, how now, Juliet!
Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay?
Therefore I will not disdain.
Than when I parted hence, but still subsisting
So did you me, my liege.
Or mons, the hill.
Anon, anon, sir. Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.
Lovell!
my discretion so weakly. Will you laugh
And in the mean time sojourn'd at my father's;
look to 't.
For what had he to do to chide at me?
about her heart. Is there any cause in nature that
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
All continent impediments would o'erbear
me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I
The tribune and his nephews kneel for grace;
ANTIPHOLUS
Which craves as desperate an execution.
Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,
case, William?
For what you see is but the smallest part
ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep,
And send him word by me which way you go.
and lost all my money?
Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain,
At my lodging.
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
la truie lavee au bourbier;' thou makest use of any thing.
ANTIPHOLUS
O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low;
Honest! good fellow, what's that? If it be a day
The faults of fools but folly.
Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though plague,
And so afflict our province. Yet once more
For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me
That can never be.
Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd,
The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
And I am struck with sorrow. Take him up.
The cost that did conclude it.
So safely ordered that there is no soul--
I do live at my house, and my house doth stand by
Have put his knife to him.'
The noble thanes do bravely in the war;
The last was I that felt thy tyranny:
I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
'Faith, I perceive our masters may throw their caps
Ne'er turns the key to the poor.
speed well in it, the duke shall both speak of it.
And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,
Do you damn others, and let this damn you,
Had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly,
Of my lord general.
Where are my other men, monsieur? Farewell.
I shall serve you, sir,
In such a night
pleasure to you in being so. You blame Marcius for
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
ANTIPHOLUS
The wild sea of my conscience, I did steer
Please it your grace to be advertised
Ha! Canterbury?
It is thyself, mine own self's better part,
Royal Lear,
justice, sir, and do bring in here before your good
I have, thou gallant Trojan, seen thee oft
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
Is only Helena. To her, my lord,
How that ambitious Constance would not cease
Enter Chamberlain, reading a letter
Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you
I have consider'd of a course. Good lady,
Is Fulvia's death.
Go shake your ears.
You look not well, Signior Antonio;
O God, that seest it, do not suffer it!
And so unworthily disgrace the man,
Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall
I will, sir.
Tying her duty, beauty, wit and fortunes
Did ever raven sing so like a lark,
Come, therefore, let's about it speedily.
Did you hear the proclamation?
Yes, by all means; if it be but to scrape the
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
Enter Clown
might it not?
She did deceive her father, marrying you;
As the weird women promised, and, I fear,
Shall I not have barely my principal?
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter three or four Conspirators of AUFIDIUS' faction
wrestling, which you have lost the sight of.
Grew fat with feasting there.
Exit
That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
Great; the parish curate, Alexander; Armado's page,
Sport royal, I warrant you: I know my physic will
If the first hour I shrink and run away.
Hath too much mangled; whose repair and franchise
Then follow me, and give me audience, friends.
Why then I suck my teeth and catechise
Will you draw near!
Exeunt
Falling on Diomed.
I had been mercenary.
Incertain lookers on. What were more holy
have decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my
Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
Thou shouldst have said 'Good porter, turn the key,'
Deserve such pity of him as the wolf
meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's
Why, ne'er repent it, if it were done so.
Titania waked and straightway loved an ass.
For thy best use and wearing.
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
no legacy is so rich as honesty.
They are near the city?
What's that to thee?
To parley with the sole inheritor
Ay me, this object kills me!
Enter REGAN and OSWALD
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
children rawly left. I am afeard there are few die
By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself to mar,'
If silent, why, a block moved with none.
Exeunt above DUCHESS and HUME, guarded
Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,
What is that wrong whereof you both complain?
Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies.
Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd;
Be not dismayed.
For, sure, there's no converting of 'em: now
Was parmaceti for an inward bruise;
Knights,
brutish villain! worse than brutish! Go, sirrah,
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
You tread upon my patience: but be sure
A pain that only seems to seek out danger
But that's all one, our play is done,
Lean, rent and beggar'd by the strumpet wind!
Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
'Tis unreasonable! Will you take up your wife's
That's curdied by the frost from purest snow
To entrap the wisest. Therefore, thou gaudy gold,
Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception
To ally my rages and revenges with
I will discharge it in either your straw-colour
Worthy voices!
Maintain--I know not what: 'tis trash. Farewell.
For me,
Should be to be protected like a child.
Nay, but I bar to-night: you shall not gauge me
a leg, put off's cap, kiss his hand and say nothing,
By Dromio?
Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so,
Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl'd down
Would! nay, I will.
Your sued-for tongues?
As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
So much to my good comfort, as it is
That way inclining, harden'd be the hearts
may reign in them now! O Imogen,
If Tamora entreat him, then he will:
Enter VENTIDIUS
And that his friends by deputation could not
It sendeth forth to skirmish. One to ten!
pains to work her to your manage. Come, we will
As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you.
That ever I was born to set it right!
But let my trial be mine own confession:
By the vow of mine order I warrant you, if my
eternity and could put breath into his work, would
It was your pleasure and your own remorse:
For you and I are past our dancing days:
I prithee, lady, go away with me.
O, by this count I shall be much in years
Save in aspect, hath all offence seal'd up;
She is the weeping welkin, I the earth:
Enter a Messenger
Know I these men that come along with you?
When ye were so indeed.
Might stop our countryman.
Certainly, sir, I can.
The fardel there? what's i' the fardel?
Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words and threats
The several caskets to this noble prince.
me. If then thou be son to me, here lies the point;
Alarum. Enter an English Soldier, crying 'A  Talbot! a Talbot!' They fly, leaving their clothes behind
In faith,
So thou wilt send thy gentle heart before,
What, all amort? Rouen hangs her head for grief
What dost thou strike at, Marcus, with thy knife?
Enter RICHARD
Saw her abed, and in the morning early
And after we will both our judgments join
Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
SCENE II. The camp near Tamworth.
The queen, madam,
To bathe my lips upon; this hand, whose touch,
Come, let us in, and with all speed provide
Such goodly things as you!
That was sent to me from the council, pray'd me
are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
shrift and advise him for a better place. Yet you
We do believe thee: and beshrew my soul
Come, come,
Let him on.
To see us here unarm'd: I have a woman's longing,
A lip of much contempt, speeds from me and
Circumstance; the seventh, the Lie Direct. All
That's a question: how shall we try it?
opinion by this worn out.
Since, lords of England, it is thus agreed
pretending in her discoveries of dishonour: in few,
rope's-end.'
Would seem hyperboles. At this fusty stuff
Good morrow, fair ones: pray you, if you know,
And is his oracle.
I go, my lord.
Who strongly hath set footing in this land:
But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me.
And what should I do in Illyria?
Propinquity and property of blood,
We will meet them,
The safer sense will ne'er accommodate
Was fairer than his grandam and as chaste
Many that are not mad
Continue where he is: to shift his being
I heard a bustling rumour, like a fray,
RICHARD
sighs; and conjure thee to pardon Rome, and thy
And they watch too. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards,
You valiant offspring of great Priamus.
Give me some token for the surety of it.
To dare the vile contagion of the night
A heart it was, bound in with diamonds,
Prithee, let him.
over-lusty at legs, then he wears wooden
on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!
Lo, at this tomb my tributary tears
SCENE I. PETRUCHIO'S country house.
If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
And yet, good faith, I wish'd myself a man,
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and the DUCHESS OF YORK
How that might change his nature, there's the question.
living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a
My legs can keep no pace with my desires.
For I will slay myself.
'Item: She hath no teeth.'
Enter a Nurse, with a blackamoor Child in her arms
For I'll not kill thee there, nor there, nor there;
Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry,
Exeunt
Sings
Should breed thy fellow. Friends, I owe more tears
Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep,
Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
I kiss'd it; and it gave me present hunger
And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I;
If ever I thy face by daylight see:
Are servanted to others: though I owe
All that you speak shows fair.
Are stronger than mine eyes.
As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends,
From firm security.
With sands that will not bear your enemies' boats,
The doom of Egypt.
For the embracements even of Jove himself;
No woman had it, but a civil doctor,
That down fell both the Ram's horns in the court;
Re-enter MARIANA
Give me pen and ink. Sirrah, can you with a grace
Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
For the in which doth control't.
Had he his hurts before?
Good! gramercy.
Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
Sir, look well to my husband's house; and--
Walk half an hour, Leonine, at the least:
You must not stay here longer, your dismission
She has deceived her father, and may thee.
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
We'll hear no more.
on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
Why keep we her? the Grecians keep our aunt:
insert again my haud credo for a deer.
Must be of such unnatural degree,
In tempting of your patience; but am bolden'd
Runs on his sword
things for bird-bolts that you deem cannon-bullets:
Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news?
These things being bought and orderly bestow'd,
Heaven's peace be with him!
Where did you buy it? or who gave it you?
O, quietness, lady!
unlooked for, and there's an end.
'Tis the infirmity of his age: yet he hath ever
And let it not displease thee, good Bianca,
Madam, I was not old sir Robert's son:
Why, what would you?
Ay, please your grace.
I saw them speak together.
Thou art too slow to do thy master's bidding,
That I did love the Moor to live with him,
Exeunt
I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your
Look to the boy.
O, that I could but call these dead to life!
Then here's a man stands, that has brought his pardon.
He's simple and tells much.
The beauty of his daughter; he himself
In no less working than are swords and bows
No; it is stopp'd with other flattering sounds,
Madam!
The secret of your conference?
In sharing that which you have pill'd from me!
Caesar's.
Peace to this meeting, wherefore we are met!
My music playing far off, I will betray
So he had need, for 'tis threadbare. Well, I say it
The palace full of tongues, of eyes, and ears:
What's the business,
Shall we give over Orleans, or no?
I would you would make use of that good wisdom,
Rape, call you it, my lord, to seize my own,
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
Your knees to them, not arms, must help. Alack,
consent to you: if any man may, you may as soon as
Out at the postern by the abbey-wall:
Who should I swear by? thou believest no god:
Come, bring me where they are.
Why, here's no crab; and therefore look not sour.
Edward's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish.
No man so potent breathes upon the ground
We'll set thee to school to an ant, to teach thee
Prepare, madam, prepare!
For when would you, my liege, or you, or you,
To wreak the love I bore my cousin
As now she might have done,
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master.
I will peat his pate four days. Bite, I pray you; it
house; charged me, on pain of their perpetual
That we have made so much on. I had rather
You shall hear from me still; the time shall not
She hath herself not only well defended
Enter CASSIO, and certain Officers with torches
For the table, sir, it shall be served in; for the
To bear the extremity of dire mishap!
I have operations which be humours of revenge.
Enter FLORIZEL and PERDITA
What maids lack from head to heel:
Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men;
I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that
Marcus, we are but shrubs, no cedars we
Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
so. Now come I to my father; Father, your blessing:
Aumerle, thou liest; his honour is as true
if room enough!
Welcome, dear Proteus! Mistress, I beseech you,
endure my Lady Tongue.
You have not sought it! how comes it, then?
Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted.
Here comes your father; tell him so yourself,
That must destroy thee.
Among the bands--may drive us to a render
Friar, not I	I have been drinking hard all night,
Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
That brings me food to make misfortune live?
What is the matter, my lord?
Shall break the locks
To give thee from our royal master thanks;
To envelop and contain celestial spirits.
land-service, to see how the bear tore out his
lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me
I never read but England's kings have had
You must think this, look you, that the worm will
And there is my Lord of Worcester and a head
Till Henry be more weak and I more strong,--
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
So soon as that spare Cassius. He reads much;
And that same sword-and-buckler Prince of Wales,
That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;
With my confineless harms.
SCENE IV. Hall in Capulet's house.
not to think what I can, nor indeed I cannot think,
By the heels, and suddenly; and on your heads
In resolution as I swore before.
How would he hang his slender gilded wings,
I feel too much thy blessing: make it less,
sack finely.
He's fat, and scant of breath.
Ha, do I perceive dat? have you make-a de sot of
Richly in two short hours. Only they
As I had leave of means?
Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
Bring me but to the very brim of it,
To know the cause of your abrupt departure.
Exit
And manhood is call'd foolery, when it stands
By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make,
SCENE II. Orleans. Within the town.
Here comes my lord.
Lack blood to think on't, and flush youth revolt:
When corn was given them gratis, you repined;
And yet I was last chidden for being too slow.
To pay that duty which you truly owe
The devil take one party and his dam the other! and
It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.
My worth unknown, no loss is known in me.
I am sure you have: speak truth; ye're honest men.
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
owl, a puttock, or a herring without a roe, I would
And pray your mother's blessing. Turn, good lady;
And, fairy-like, to-pinch the unclean knight,
than I will a serpent when he hisses: he will spend
Why, go to bed, and sleep.
Ay, to me;
He's gentle and not fearful.
It is well.
Can lift your blood up with persuasion.
Perhaps she cull'd it from among the rest.
When it was out,--'Let me not live,' quoth he,
Your matrons and your maids, could not fill up
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
He question'd me; amongst the rest, demanded
Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
And fearful to be granted.
Thy lips that kiss'd the queen shall sweep the ground;
ancients, corporals, lieutenants, gentlemen of
Exit
What, Grumio!
O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now,
Portia, what mean you? wherefore rise you now?
She is as far high-soaring o'er thy praises
And 'tis well seen he found an enemy.
is sweet. Nay, you shall fight your hearts out ere
Besides, I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury,
Nettled and stung with pismires, when I hear
out, there are members to make new. If there were
Err'd in this point which now you censure him,
O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm,--
Or flourish to the height of my degree.
With the least cause these his new honours, which
And therefore apt, because quick.
will mow all down before him, and leave his passage polled.
O plague right well prevented! so will you say when
How likes she my discourse?
To whom they are directed. If you knew
If that the heavens do not their visible spirits
And burgonet of men. He's speaking now,
Thou canst compel no more than she entreat:
Madman and beggar too.
How came
had as lief be wooed of a snail.
therefore he gives them good leave to wander.
Enter SIMONIDES, THAISA, Lords, and Attendants
Horrible steep.
And it I will have, or I will have none.
So I will, my liege, as I live.
Must rectify our knowledge.
Enter Judges, Senators and Tribunes, with MARTIUS  and QUINTUS, bound, passing on to the place of execution; TITUS going before, pleading
Your daughter, if you have not given her leave,
Lost he his other eye?
Her name is Katharina Minola,
O'er sixteen years and leave the growth untried
What trumpet's that?
To join like likes and kiss like native things.
I had rather seal with my death than repeat over
If this prove true, they'll pay for't:
I say, sing.
Health, at your bidding, serve your majesty!
For an abuser of the world, a practiser
At least ungentle, of the dreadful Neptune,
Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but
E'en so.
And trust not simple Henry nor his oaths.
So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
Doth speak sufficiently he's gone to travel.
Good my lord,--
So far I read aloud:
He smiled me in the face, raught me his hand,
For such a petty war: his soldiership
Nay, I'll come: if I lose a scruple of this sport,
It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
Fling up his cap, and say 'God save his majesty!'
he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger
Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time:
Exeunt Sheriff and Carrier
The better arm you to the sudden time,
gentleman of excellent breeding, admirable
Why, Phaeton,--for thou art Merops' son,--
Now must I to the monument alone;
Even now, sir; on a moderate pace I have since
Mistress!
me if she did nod; and I say, 'Ay.'
In having known no travel in his youth.
Did steer humanity: but you, gods, will give us
We will, my noble lord.
And in that very line, Harry, standest thou;
Ever to read them thine.
Look through a casement to allure false hearts
was done to Elbow's wife, that he hath cause to
O villain! thy lips are scarce wiped since thou
Enter Clown
Exit ISABELLA
And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows
Not a word of Costard yet.
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
Not he that sets his foot upon her back.
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Why, sir, I'll strike nothing: I pray you,--
of voice? Is there no respect of place, persons, nor
Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York!
And that shall be the ransom for their fault.
Say so but seldom.
The queen is obstinate,
How well my comfort is revived by this!
As sensual as the brutish sting itself;
The sad companion, dull-eyed melancholy,
And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
appoint them a place of meeting, wherein it is at
Among the infinite doings of the world,
SCENE II. Another room in the same.
From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
know to be his character, the majesty of the
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
So fled his enemies my warlike father:
Against renowned Douglas! whose high deeds,
A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices
His Philomel must lose her tongue to-day,
God pardon all oaths that are broke to me!
Of vile confederates. Along with them
Enter a Servant
pursue him with any further revenge?
Thy rage sham burn thee up, and thou shalt turn
Good master Parson, be so good as read me this
Claps on his sea-wing, and, like a doting mallard,
These four came all a-front, and mainly thrust at
To make this bitter to thee.
praise him.
Thyself shalt see the act:
Farewell, good Launcelot.
break their hearts but they will effect. God be
Have miserable, mad, mistaking eyes.
flap for a sore eye, thou tassel of a prodigal's
They'll pardon it.--Say you, sir?
The wind sits fair for news to go to Ireland,
Upon the beauty of all parts besides,
They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves
Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together
The lunatic, the lover and the poet
Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
The man is innocent.
Renowned Titus, more than half my soul,--
Draw near, ye people.
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
Exit QUEEN ELIZABETH
Yet will he swear he loves.
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
Thyself thyself misusest.
Opens the tomb
England we love; and for that England's sake
Brentford?
lie,
I hear my father coming: pardon me:
Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands?
Caesar, I shall.
bare till merit crown it: no perfection in reversion
And will not hear it. What committed!
SCENE IV. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
Satis quod sufficit.
That like events may ne'er it ruinate.
were one. I would we were all of one mind, and one
Your son and daughter found this trespass worth
Digressing from the valour of a man;
Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
If I prove honey-mouth'd let my tongue blister
She would applaud Andronicus' conceit:
Whose heart within his bosom is.
Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,
Could say 'This is my wife' there; all were woven
Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts
So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul,
know the king is full of grief.
A pair of cursed hell-hounds and their dam!
She is a gallant creature, and complete
See if thou canst outface me with thy looks:
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
I pull in resolution, and begin
And here an engine fit for my proceeding.
'Tis but surmised whiles thou art standing by,
And so, good rest.
For, in my conscience, I was the first man
Place barrels of pitch upon the fatal stake,
very epicure.
but something given to lie; as a woman should not
Command me any service to her thither?
Cressid comes forth to him.
If they have done this thing, my gracious lord--
Revolt our subjects? that we cannot mend;
My lord protector needs will have it so.
He cannot be compell'd to't--once remove
[Within]  Madam!
No, girl, I'll knit it up in silken strings
Than to suspicion.
We'll betray him finely.
So, now I have mine own again, be gone,
BEDFORD dies, and is carried in by two in his chair
I know her answer.
Who hath committed them?
Now, unto thy bones good night!
Forbear the absence of your king:
I swear.
If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer
Helping her
one;
him as this of Kent's banishment.
praise, too brown for a fair praise and too little
becomes him better than any man in all Phrygia.
No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
What with the injuries of a wanton time,
An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit,
What masque? what music? How shall we beguile
Remote from all the pleasures of the world;
My lord, here is my bill.
your 'quaes,' and your 'quods,' you must be
company to Venice, that swear he cannot choose but break.
This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.
Being an ordinary inundation;
Can bide the beating of so strong a passion
Therein behold themselves: I say again,
How do you? how do you?
For worms, brave Percy: fare thee well, great heart!
Of many faces, eyes and hearts,
Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
Ye say honestly: rest you merry!
O, no more, no more!
It might; but it is not now.
And, in good time, here comes the noble duke.
Fly hence, and leave me: think upon these gone;
your prophet the Nazarite conjured the devil into. I
English condition. Fare ye well.
But yet so just that he will not revenge.
Against the old kind king; or something deeper,
I'll not come back; the tidings that I bring
My brother Robert? old sir Robert's son?
An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!
Exeunt
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
To RICHMOND
Which hurts, and is desired. Dost thou lie still?
God save your honour!
Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms.
That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,
What, one good in ten? you corrupt the song, sirrah.
It shall be so:
singleness.
disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob
Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
Your uncle must not know but you are dead;
fear, the angle that plucks our son thither. Thou
That Caesar and his senate must redress?
Enter ACHILLES
Command in Anjou what your honour pleases.
The theme of our assembly.
If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man.
Come, Margaret; God, our hope, will succor us.
O Stephano. hast any more of this?
What say you to this, sir?
I would have left it on the board so soon
Irreparable is the loss, and patience
A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
Your reeking villany.
This morning, like the spirit of a youth
I am resolved; 'tis but a three years' fast:
That had he Duncan's sons under his key--
Exeunt
Beats BIONDELLO
Ecoutez: comment etes-vous appele?
Strike up the drum towards Athens! Farewell, Timon:
Bid her devise
Myself to see the issue.
the crime of it out of us.
And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio
I can interpret all her martyr'd signs;
marks of sovereignty, knowledge, and reason,
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
We will not fly, but to our enemies' throats.
Mounsieur Cobweb, good mounsieur, get you your
Transform'd and weaken'd? hath Bolingbroke deposed
Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move
That the great child of honour, Cardinal Wolsey, Was dead?
What patch is made our porter? My master stays in
I promise you, my soul is very jocund
But 'tis usurp'd: alack the heavy day,
Why writes she so to me? Well, shepherd, well,
What the conditions of that league must be.
He's flung in rage from this ingrateful seat
She swooned almost at my pleasing tale,
Nay, I know not: it makes me almost ready to
All sworn and honourable:--they induced to steal it!
palsies, raw eyes, dirt-rotten livers, wheezing
The warlike feats I have done, his spirits fly out
Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
But a hare that is hoar
Let it be a quarrel between us, if you live.
Most dull, honest Dull! To our sport, away!
By your leave, sir.
A rotten carcass of a boat, not rigg'd,
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the
Trumpets within
Exeunt
In borrow'd robes?
Nor the furious winter's rages;
Well-sailing ships and bounteous winds have brought
For so I will. Mine eyes grow dim. Farewell,
'Gan in your duller Britain operate
A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford!
That they are out by lease.
I went to seek him: in the street I met him
hate a drunken rogue.
Why, thy verse swells with stuff so fine and smooth
These English woes will make me smile in France.
Ay, marry, was it, mussel-shell: what would you with her?
Vell.
Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak with
Bring us to this sight, and you shall say
Lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine.
For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.
them a fair departure.
That heaven hath infused them with these spirits,
Wilt break my heart?
To which is fixed, as an aim or butt,
Then, if you will elect by my advice,
Have here bereft my brother of his life.
Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
Enter Clown
Do you think 'tis this?
And look where Publius is come to fetch me.
They have been absent: 'tis good speed; foretells
That screws me from my true place in your favour,
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
But we the doers.
without cause, mistress, do I?
Base men, that use them to so base effect!
Some wine, ho!
And will she yet debase her eyes on me,
master's false accusation; and, briefly, I desire
I have inquired, so has my husband, man by man, boy
And duty never yet did want his meed:
'Tis more by fortune, lady, than by merit.
God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
Swooning destruction, or some joy too fine,
My people do already know my mind,
They are gone but to meet the duke, villain: do not
Men of peace, well encountered.
So farewell to the little good you bear me.
Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.
What our contempt doth often hurl from us,
against a post when he was drunk. They will steal
Let him be made a coverture for the wars!
Must I go like a traitor thither?
In emerald tufts, flowers purple, blue and white;
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
Hours dreadful and things strange; but this sore night
Did you see my cap?
'Tis our hope, sir,
Must be to loathe her. O curse of marriage,
Caius, I am come to fetch you home. I am sworn of
I did, Sir Thomas: and left him at primero
And he that hath commanded is the king.
Enter AEMILIUS
But mice and rats, and such small deer,
Who hateth him and honours not his father,
Neighbours, you are tedious.
So vulgarly and personally accused,
thee: yet for the outside of thy poverty we must
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
Sir, here's a woman would speak with you.
And you say, you will have her, when I bring her?
We are for law: he dies; urge it no more,
VARRO and CLAUDIUS lie down
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:
Old sir, I know
Defy the matter. How cheerest thou, Jessica?
Sayest thou so, old Jack? go thy ways; I'll make
And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
Here they fight
You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe
Is not this your son, my lord?
the storm. And art thou living, Stephano? O
When did she send thee?
Lord Suffolk, you and I must talk of that event.
My lord, stand back, and let the coffin pass.
And is Aufidius with him? You are they
Do not rise yet.
Thus die I, thus, thus, thus.
shall be dry again.
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
Our town of Cicester in Gloucestershire;
A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
And such as to my claim are liable,
In mouths of wisest censure: what's the matter,
So, so, so, so: they laugh that win.
I told you. Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remiss
But who comes in such haste in riding-robes?
In angel whiteness beat away those blushes;
Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
His glassy essence, like an angry ape,
Unthread the rude eye of rebellion
It may be so: if he have robb'd these men,
Walk'd crowns and crownets; realms and islands were
SCENE III. Court of TITUS's house. A banquet set out.
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity. Wilt
Greater than shows itself at the first view
Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
Do sorely ruffle; for many miles a bout
Sweet Pandarus,--
There was a yielding,--this admits no excuse.
If sad and merry madness equal be.
Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite
It makes us, or it mars us; think on that,
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Take heed you dally not before your king;
Re-enter POLONIUS, with VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster
In cases of defence 'tis best to weigh
Yet I am doubtful for I am mainly ignorant
Beats TRINCULO
Ha!
Enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS
Which dances with your daughter?
And fly like thought from them to me again.
By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
DON
All the foul terrors in dark-seated hell--
nine sparrows for a penny, and his pia mater is not
And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks:
How prettily the young swain seems to wash
If you speak truth, for their poor mistress' sake;
Salisbury and Warwick are no simple peers.
Et bonum quo antiquius, eo melius.
But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
In sign of truth, I kiss your highness' hand.
Lights that do mislead the morn:
To try me with affliction; had they rain'd
the shot here; here's no scoring but upon the pate.
Traitors!
The means of weakness and debility;
Of such a time: being my sworn servant,
There is no woman's sides
And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent:
and for so much as I have perused, I find it not
Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.
So I might have your company in hell,
In which addition, hail, most worthy thane!
Ay, but, by your leave, not before me; the
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Exit
All things are ready, if our minds be so.
Array'd in flames like to the prince of fiends,
night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall
very C's, her U's and her T's and thus makes she her
Never was seen so black a day as this:
What men of name resort to him?
And so in ours: some neighbouring nation,
As prisoners to her womanly persuasion.
Good night, my lord.
Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughts
This palliament of white and spotless hue;
I do arrest thee of high treason here.
He will clapper-claw thee tightly, bully.
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath
That Hermia should give answer of her choice?
Those,--for their parents were exceeding poor,--
Thou hast repeal'd, a second time receive
hangman shall execute it. Come your ways. We'll
I wonder none of you have thought of him.
Found that the issue was not his begot;
Find you that there?
Enter OTHELLO and EMILIA
For youth is bought more oft than begg'd or borrow'd.
And cry out for thee to close up mine eyes,
In her imagined person.
Could not again undo: it was mine art,
That without covering, save yon field of stars,
To scape his hands where I was like to die.
O just but severe law!
A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage.
Towards their project. Then I beat my tabour;
sending that way; for it is said, 'God sends a curst
Gifts that God gives.
Beside five hundred prisoners of esteem,
No, faith, young Troilus; doff thy harness, youth;
or nine wise words to speak to you, which these
Exeunt CHATILLON and PEMBROKE
A better head her glorious body fits
Exit with Jessica and Salarino
know this to be true; therefore prepare yourself to
Fool, I say!
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
In spending your wit in the praise of mine.
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
And follow unacquainted colours here?
[Aside to SIMPLE]  I am glad he is so quiet: if he
Jew to sup to-night with my new master the Christian.
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
that was, your son that is, your child that shall
No sovereignty;--
Well, seeing gentle words will not prevail,
Thy shape invisible retain thou still:
Yet I am none: whose tongue soe'er speaks false,
Thou, trumpet, there's my purse.
The other is daughter to the banish'd duke,
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
Now, for not looking on a woman's face,
The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
Perceive I speak sincerely, and high note's
A sibyl, that had number'd in the world
Pulling out a paper
Thunder. Enter the three Witches
That thou shalt do no murder: and wilt thou, then,
Than stay, past doubt, for greater:
And twenty caged nightingales do sing:
O you immortal gods! I will not go.
Exeunt LADY ANNE, TRESSEL, and BERKELEY
Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face;
And laid good 'scuse upon your ecstasy,
Some wanton charm upon this man and maid,
To keep the oath that we administer:
gentle: and since the wisdom of their choice is
With these ill tidings.
Can lack persuasion? Do not tempt my misery,
Be't so: declare thine office.
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
Between this chastised kingdom and myself,
Here art thou in appointment fresh and fair,
'Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement, et
As matter whole you have not to make it with,
Oxford, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt,
To whom I give my benison,
Than a wild dedication of yourselves
What is't thou say'st?
majestically, both in word and matter, hang me up by
Methought a serpent eat my heart away,
Why should I not, had I the heart to do it,
In each eye, one: swear by your double self,
Or stomach-qualm'd at land, a dram of this
So Got udge me, that is a virtuous mind.
And Brutus is an honourable man.
He might have tried Lord Lucius or Lucullus;
Be stronger with thee than the name of wife?
a smack o' the contrary. If ever thou be'st bound
The fever whereof all our power is sick.
And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought,--
Welcome, sir.
See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
The reason moved these warlike lords to this
Enter HORATIO and a Servant
Is he not approved in the height a villain, that
starved. What, ostler! A plague on thee! hast thou
casual; a cunning thief, or a that way accomplished
Where is he?
By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
Presenting a small box
This letter is mistook, it importeth none here;
Should say 'Be good to Rome,' they charged him even
What? I say,
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
Dies
Exeunt
And this is all a liberal course allows;
I never saw a better-fashion'd gown,
And here another: the one of them imports
As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose,
[Within]  At hand, quoth pick-purse.
When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
On this unworthy scaffold to bring forth
You flow to great distraction; come, my lord.
Alas, I had rather be set quick i' the earth
Make us pay down for our offence by weight
king, be his cause never so spotless, if it come to
for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it
Most true, 'tis right; you were so, Alisander.
Of ashy semblance, meagre, pale and bloodless,
Our overplus of shipping will we burn;
where he is.
Come, Suffolk, I must waft thee to thy death.
[Aside]  You are a fool granted; therefore your
has a knot on't yet
And in this covert will we make our stand,
yours: provided I have your commendation for my more
It is a bitter deputy.
What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel
With this night's revels and expire the term
Why, sir, cobble you.
Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
Of all the gentry: there is Siward's son,
Would not entreat for life?
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
But now two mirrors of his princely semblance
'You shall demand of him, whether one Captain Dumain
Is this: she hath bought the name of whore
There's nothing here that is too good for him
It were done quickly: if the assassination
You shout me forth
Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
Thus high, by thy advice
sparks and lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall
There is none: man, sitting down before you, will
Unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
To please the palate of my appetite,
He knows himself my bed he hath defiled;
By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
Enter Poet, Painter, Jeweller, Merchant, and others, at several doors
For I am sure you can wish none from me:
How rank soever rounded in with danger.
How well supplied with noble counsellors,
minstrels; draw, to pleasure us.
Ay, my good lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
Weeping before for what she saw must come,
Against his brother and his lawful king?
do, chapels had been churches and poor men's
If any be, the trespass of the queen.
My Lord Ulysses, tell me, I beseech you,
Is't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation
Enter PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
Enter ANTIGONUS with a Child, and a Mariner
And Julia herself hath brought it hither.
walk: I will even take my leave of you, and pace
your hearts.
We are blest in this man, as I may say, even blest.
With man's blood paint the ground, gules, gules:
In every power that moves.
allow of thy wits, and fear to kill a woodcock, lest
Harmless Richard was murder'd traitorously.
You have brought
When daisies pied and violets blue
That mercy which fierce fire and iron extends,
He is dead, Caesar:
No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
forswear arms. The virtue of this jest will be, the
They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
Ay, my good lord.
Be my retentive enemy, my gaol?
I think I had; I never did deny it.
Kneeling
I'll follow, sir. But first, an't please the gods,
Poor harmless fly,
Are in great grievance: there have been commissions
I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away.
Flinty mankind; whose eyes do never give
Beheld his tears, and laugh'd so heartily,
Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy.
Of brothers' temper, do receive you in
This old moon wanes! she lingers my desires,
soul!' and forgave him with all their hearts: but
If it be,
And, for a minister of my intent,
Make Cressid's name the very crown of falsehood,
'Tween man and man: but thou, thou meagre lead,
Should therein make me vile, the common body,
Nothing: I have sworn; I am firm.
'Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
A mother and two brothers: but, O scorn!
Flourish. Exeunt
Thus strangers may be hailed and abused: O
Why, 'tis found so.
me yare; for truly, sir, for your kindness I owe you
And by him seal up thy mind;
I go, my lord.
Yet am I noble as the adversary
Go to, sweet queen, to go:--commends himself most
My liege, I'll knock once more to summon them.
I have not deserved this.
I'll answer thee in any fair degree,
Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
No, Kate? I will tell thee in French; which I am
That him and his they in his palace burn;
Would so offend a virgin, and extort
Lavinia, how say you?
What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys;
Ne'er see thou man, and let me ne'er see thee.
Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
I will not think it.
And rather proved the sliding of your brother
Dead?
The common stroke of war.
flowers o' the season
[To KING RICHARD III]
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
But on this day let seamen fear no wreck;
If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
Put not your worthy rage into your tongue;
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER
And over the chair of state, where now he sits,
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience,
And take the shame with joy.
Exit
The breath is gone whereof this praise is made:
To have saved their carcasses! took heel to do't,
Pray so; and, for the ordering your affairs,
Either envy, therefore, or misprison
Troth, no; no more than reason.
Pointing to the Child in the arms of an Attendant
There, take thy hire; and all the fiends of hell
Those twins Of learning that he raised in you,
Enter CASSANDRA
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
[Within]  Nothing but death shall stay me.
For half thy wealth, it is Antonio's;
For which myself, the ignorant motive, do
Come, let's be gone.
the said Henry shall espouse the Lady Margaret,
All places yield to him ere he sits down;
Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
From whom we thought it meet to hide our love
To seek their fortunes farther than at home
Who wrought it with the king, and who perform'd
I cannot nor I will not yield to you.
Drives back our troops and conquers as she lists:
Signior Love.
A villain to attempt it, who having drawn to do't,
Touching the weal o' the common, you shall find
I deserve it. How now! whither bear you this?
There is something in the wind, that we cannot get in.
And we, poor mates, stand on the dying deck,
A father and a friend to thee and Rome.
As I might love: I never gave him token.
According to our proclamation gone?
Who, I? alas, it is my vice, my fault:
Re-enter JULIET, above
do you service and you think we are ruffians, you'll
Wherefore to Dover? Let him first answer that.
Converses apart with FERDINAND, and delivers him a paper
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,
Her portion equal his.
Were he the butcher of my son, he should
thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin.
If he do not dote on her upon this, I will never
As she that he hath stain'd?
Upon my life, I am a lord indeed
Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death,
As well as I had seen and heard him speak
Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal:
The news, Rogero?
Which else no worldly good should draw from me.
More than cool reason ever comprehends.
Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage:
Against the steep uprising of the hill?
And keep eternal spring-time on thy face,
We still have known thee for a holy man.
The shirt of Nessus is upon me: teach me,
I shall both find your lordship judge and juror,
Will none but Herne the hunter serve your turn?
O blest, that I might not! I chose an eagle,
SCENE III. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Most noble Timon, call the man before thee.
Sir, most heedfully.
defend my wiles; upon my secrecy, to defend mine
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
That best becomes the table. Pray you once more,
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
With half that face would he have all my land:
Say, I would die.
knees! But, sirrah, there's no room for faith,
Enter Mariners wet
God's benison go with you; and with those
Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war;
and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Let
Of middle summer, and I think they are given
Sir, a word ere you go;
That old and antique song we heard last night:
Death is the fairest cover for her shame
Than I have here proclaim'd thee.
What is't thou say'st? Her voice was ever soft,
I will not leave the half-achieved Harfleur
Than I have named! The bastard Faulconbridge
and so was he: but we rose both at an instant and
'Tis true:--nay, keep the ring--'tis true: I am sure
I have forsworn.
A cry of hounds and horns, winded in a peal. Enter  SATURNINUS, TAMORA, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, and Attendants
Come on, brave soldiers: doubt not of the day,
With bats and clubs? The matter? speak, I pray you.
Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff,
So must slender Rosalind.
And they shall do their office. So, be gone;
Calmly, good Laertes.
And here my brother, weeping at my woes.
And with their helps only defend ourselves;
And in the very pangs of death he cried,
methinks they are such a gentle nation that, but for
Prescribe not us our duties.
Famed be thy tutor, and thy parts of nature
Sparkles this stone as it was wont? or is't not
Sparing would show a worse sin than ill doctrine:
In feeding them with those my former fortunes
Exit
But doth rebate and blunt his natural edge
go away merry; but they enter my mistress' house
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
She is stirring, sir: if she will stir hither, I
great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will
That do demonstrate thinly.
Yon island carrions, desperate of their bones,
Who, the Lord Timon? he is my very good friend, and
When they do hug him in their melting bosoms.
What my estate is!
I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou
This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance
Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown.
ACT II
Indeed we fear'd his sickness was past cure.
And here's thy hand, in scorn to thee sent back;
'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue.
Between the realms of England and of France.
Well, well.
O Sisters Three,
Exeunt KING RICHARD II, some Lords, and a Guard
I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.
I am in all affected as yourself;
next block.
By the simplicity of Venus' doves,
Lady, wherefore talk you so?
But mine it will, that no exploit have done:
They walk, and speak not
Brook is his name?
Under his chance: if we draw lots, he speeds;
and by midnight look to hear further from me.
Moe than you rob: take wealth and lives together;
Content; and the argument shall be thy running away.
Whatsome'er he is,
Pardon me, gracious lord;
I go, I go; look how I go,
With full bags of spices! A passport too!
Thrown upon this shore. I oped the coffin,
'ARTEMIDORUS.'
And you my good lords, both have well proceeded,
The danger of the task you undertake.
hast thou no faith in thee?
of purses than giving direction doth from labouring;
'Tis a good form.
This becomes the great.
With them forgive yourself.
That long time have been barren.
Awake remembrance of these valiant dead
Until his army be dismiss'd from him.
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS and RUGBY
Full weak to undertake our wars against
bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in
Are meet for plucking up, and therefore mine.
And grew a twenty years removed thing
A second course of fight.
There, then, that vizard; that superfluous case
Will you walk in, my lord?
Alas, poor lady!
Say I do speak with her, my lord, what then?
A miserable by the death of him
happiness, that remains loyal to his vow, and your,
Ay, if the devil tempt thee to do good.
Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery,
Clambering the walls to eye him: stalls, bulks, windows,
Is he in person ready?
Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat
Whoever gave that counsel, to give forth
A stranger Pyramus than e'er played here.
poor gentlewoman: there she lost a noble and
I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert.
Lepidus, let him speak:
My sweet ounce of man's flesh! my incony Jew!
I pray you, deliver him this petition;
As to advance this jewel; accept it and wear it,
Welcome, destruction, death, and massacre!
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S Cell.
Alas, why would you heap these cares on me?
prunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,
practises he hath persecuted time with hope, and
To face the garment of rebellion
His youngest daughter, beautiful Binaca,
Confirm it so! Confounded be your strife!
Perfume for a lady's chamber;
or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir.
And I must minister the like to you.
half that they do: but this is most fallible, the
To aspire unto the crown and reign as king.
For shame, be friends, and join for that you jar:
Much is the force of heaven-bred poesy.
Exit
He seek the life of any citizen,
Mark, Marcus, mark! I understand her signs:
And Antony, were nature's piece 'gainst fancy,
her, woo her, assail her.
To emblaze the honour that thy master got.
Thus Thisby ends:
our wills are gardeners: so that if we will plant
Touch me alike, they're breath I not believe in.
O'ercharging your free purses with large fines,
For mine's beyond beyond--say, and speak thick;
All studies here I solemnly defy,
I would not change it.
Enter MARIA
But hath his bound, in earth, in sea, in sky:
A spirit I am indeed;
Nor come we to add sorrow to your tears,
We'll quickly rouse the traitors in the same.
True, he was so: I know the cause too: he'll lay
But you must flout my insufficiency?
O
Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the
before they are married, would she say?
Settlest admired reverence in a slave:
Like egg-shells moved upon their surges, crack'd
Enter PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA
[Reads]  'The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung
He does me wrong, my lord; if I were so,
At Tewksbury: despair, therefore, and die!
Which sometime hath his hour with every man.
matched, unless the devil himself turn Jew.
Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester,
Blest, and mine own!
Well, I will go.
Trouble him no further; thus you still shall find him.
close-stool to give to a nobleman! Look, here he
Shall find thee full of labours.
Doth any one accuse York for a traitor?
If this austere insociable life
It did always seem so to us: but now, in the
Sir Hugh send-a you? Rugby, baille me some paper.
Exeunt
commendation.
Hast prisoner held, fetter'd in amorous chains
The grief hath crazed my wits. What a night's this!
I'll none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon: and so
You have said now.
Where, he shall see, the boar will use us kindly.
And so with me: the great Antiochus,
Where is best place to make our battery next.
No remedy, but you will,--give me the office
But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
commission and main power, took 'em from me; with
My life as soon: I do defy thee, France.
Four feasts are toward.
And his old hate unto you; besides, forget not
Then would to God that I had never seen't!
Anon, from thy insulting tyranny,
The April 's in her eyes: it is love's spring,
Thaliard, adieu!
Infirmity doth still neglect all office
an old cloak makes a new jerkin; a withered
I think he will stand very strong with us.
Pale Hecate's offerings, and wither'd murder,
Friend, know me better; I am the Lord Pandarus.
Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty,
'My lord, the horses your lordship sent for, with
it was against our will.
When nature flamed this piece, she meant thee a good
I suffer for the truth, sir; for true it is, I was
Knowing that with the shadow of his wings
And the true blood which peepeth fairly through't,
Yet camest thou to a morsel of this feast,
Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces.
sir, I would prove--
so to heart the banishment of that worthy
To whom 'tis instant due. Ne'er speak, or think,
Enter ROSS
You have heard of such a spirit, and well you know
The deadly-handed Clifford slew my steed,
O, madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
Till you have heard me in my true complaint
The son and heir to that same Faulconbridge.
And this is more, masters, than you can deny.
Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
So much for Nestor.
i' the church, I would have swinged him, or he
Is room enough: this earth that bears thee dead
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Nay, then will I be gone.
of a cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty
It's the wind.
For shame! never stand 'you had rather' and 'you
Are of a mind; he, that they cannot help him,
Their power, I think, is thirty thousand strong:
His insolence can brook to be commanded
A pantler, not so eminent.
Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
How now, Sir Hugh! no school to-day?
We may as well push against Powle's, as stir em.
What is thy name? and wherefore comest thou hither,
Of fortunate Caesar, drawn before him, branded
What offence, sweet Beatrice?
You know I say nothing to him, for he understands
wantons, down!' 'Twas her brother that, in pure
Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
My foes I do repute you every one;
I cannot read; the character I'll take with wax:
Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed,
basket: I quaked for fear, lest the lunatic knave
What man dare, I dare:
As fits a king's remembrance.
Pray you now, buy it.
Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you;
O dear Diana,
Took once a pliant hour, and found good means
And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine:
And set them upright at their dear friends' doors,
And every thing is left at six and seven.
It gives a very echo to the seat
I prithee, tell me, doth he keep his bed?
A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank
Enter a Messenger
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
Sell me your good report.
The flower that's like thy face, pale primrose, nor
My old bones ache: here's a maze trod indeed
In such a business.
Exit
For where there is advantage to be given,
Go, get you gone; and pray be careful all,
Why, what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust?
Win you this city without stroke or wound;
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;
Anointed let me be with deadly venom,
It's nine o'clock.
Whom passion could not shake? whose solid virtue
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
But what will you be call'd?
BISHOP
Well, thou wert be horribly chid tomorrow when thou
Why, foolish Lucius, dost thou not perceive
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized;
These strong Egyptian fetters I must break,
Bassanio, lord Love, if thy will it be!
Do, do.
to Angelo: if for this night he entreat you to his
I am sent with broom before,
SCENE I. The same.
And I will strive with things impossible;
You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
Ho! now you strike like the blind man: 'twas the
I am senseless of your wrath; a touch more rare
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,
As thus for thus and such a grief for such,
the feats of a lion: he hath indeed better
Away with that audacious lady! Antigonus,
This tiger-footed rage, when it shall find
Had come along with me, but that his mistress
Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions:
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
Why, Dromio?
Touching our person seek we no revenge;
Rich, only to be wretched, thy great fortunes
boy, will be worth a Jewess' eye.
And take the great-grown traitor unawares:
plebeians: I will be bold to take my leave of you.
she-Mercury.
And shall I have?
And write in thee the figures of their love,
As shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs
Commune with you of this, but rather follow
Open their congeal'd mouths and bleed afresh!
'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse: adieu,
Do my good morrow to them, and anon
With that dread King that took our state upon him
So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men,
I do attend here on the general;
Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
So long as I am loyal, true and crimeless.
SCENE III. A field near Windsor.
there is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an
Why, thou unreverend and unhallow'd friar,
I kiss thy hand, but not in flattery, Caesar;
Even at his feet to lay my arms and power,
Heigh, heigh! the devil rides upon a fiddlestick:
'My lady is unkind, perdy.'
And not be seen to wink of all the day--
Receive him, then, to favor, Saturnine,
So says the prince and my new-trothed lord.
See for the news.
The story that is printed in her blood?
Pray heaven it be not full of knight again.
O peace, Prince Dauphin!
Would all were well! but that will never be
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
As they themselves would owe them.
And there an end; but now they rise again,
Which sixteen winters cannot blow away,
In their own shapes; for it can never be
Then speak at once what is it thou demand'st.
Here, boys, here, here! shall we wag?
Go, Dromio; there's the money, bear it straight;
If it will not be, I'll leave you.
Yet that thy brazen gates of heaven may ope,
Upon the bosom of the ground, rush forth,
Ay, ay; and she hath offer'd to the doom--
So please you, let me now be left alone,
Well said, my masters; and welcome all. To this
Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
Is guilty of a several bastardy,
Quickly, to him, and excuse his throwing into the
Dread sovereign, how much are we bound to heaven
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
To signify their coming.
Thump then and I flee.
Some of his bastard blood; and in disgrace
How now, good fellow! why shakest thou so? Fear
And full as oft came Edward to my side,
know it by thy trembling: now Prosper works upon thee.
No; heaven forfend! I would not kill thy soul.
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
Your royal fleet far off.
Know you before whom, sir?
That he shall not offend your majesty.
That now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me
As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
That codding spirit had they from their mother,
My voice is ragged: I know I cannot please you.
What colour for my visitation shall I
Impudent strumpet!
Inform her full of my particular fear;
But, if you were the devil, you are fair.
So under Him that great supremacy,
The son of Duncan,
small reflection of her wit.
SCENE I. A heath.
It burneth in the Capel's monument.
The peers agreed, and Henry was well pleased
Why, all these should be in the lanthorn; for all
Hamlet the Dane.
Take that, and that: if all this will not do,
charity, whom the foul fiend vexes: there could I
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
I know my remedy; I must go fetch the
To the expecters of our Trojan part;
The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
So is mine. Do you hear, monster? If I should take
Aside
Or foison follow: the higher Nilus swells,
Where never man's eye may behold my body:
have my music for nothing.
Come, therefore, and to Thasos send his body:
It came even from the heart of--O, she's dead!
An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
fells, you know, are greasy.
Till time and I think meet.
Music. Enter the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
Doth lesser blench at sufferance than I do.
Why, one that rode to's execution, man,
Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
Her valiant courage and undaunted spirit,
Too familiar
wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears,
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
Then let them use us well: else let them know,
Raised by your populous troops: but you are come
Did instigate the bedlam brain-sick duchess
Never went with his forces into France
His dove will prove, his gold will hold,
you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it: I bought
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his opinion.
Too much hair there, but in a semicircle
From south to west on wing soaring aloft,
To disproportion me in every part,
Else the Puck a liar call;
Are in thy vessel: let me cut the cable;
Be content and seek no new,
and of very liberal conceit.
And, in that kind, swears you do more usurp
nothing to a man.
The first, of gold, who this inscription bears,
O heaven! I thank you, Hubert.
Were those that went on each side of the queen?
By Jove, I wonder, that is king of thoughts,
And as our vineyards, fallows, meads and hedges,
How dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble?
He would not answer to: forbad all names;
horse; and she would have me as a beast: not that, I
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure,
And curtain'd with a counsel-keeping cave,
No yellow in't, lest she suspect, as he does,
Filths savour but themselves. What have you done?
Macbeth doth come.
The o'erpress'd spirits. I heard of an Egyptian
Come to one mark; as many ways meet in one town;
This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
will be a black matter for the king that led them to
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
title age cannot bring thee.
And with his varying childness cures in me
knowledge of his directions: by Cheshu, he will
hallowed and brought a benediction to the buyer:
Say as he says, or we shall never go.
Come, come, my lord, you'ld spare your spoons: you
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot on.
You have now the good advantage of the night:
There shalt thou find the mariners asleep
He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
With mistful eyes, or they will issue too.
the fashion of his hat; it ever changes with the
Stocking his messenger.
Well, husband your device; I'll to the vicar:
This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.
Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence!
He sends ye not to murder me for this
Are safely come to road.
Plantagenet, I will; and like thee, Nero,
Brother, good day; what means this armed guard
For every object that the one doth catch
a bench, but he'll speak with you.
And for her sake I will not part with him.
[To JULIET]  If I profane with my unworthiest hand
Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: I find
Disdain to root the summer-swelling flower
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb
It might have since been answer'd in repaying
Must I behold thy timeless cruel death?
As my good nurse Lychorida hath oft
Here, purposing the Bastard to destroy,
Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth,
The scarecrow that affrights our children so.
That like nor peace nor war? the one affrights you,
I have seen tempests, when the scolding winds
If you seek
Ascend his throne, descending now from him;
A thousand times in secret.
Men do their broken weapons rather use
Much good do it unto thy gentle heart!
How the English, in the suburbs close intrench'd,
that then thou mightst kill 'em and bid me to 'em!
Your princely father and my loving lord!
No.
And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the state,
A dire induction am I witness to,
'Vive le roi!' as I have bank'd their towns?
Never.
Good my lord, will you see the players well
Has left the cause o' the king unhandled; and
that, my lord, no more o' that: you mar all with
They do confound their skill in covetousness;
I rather will suspect the sun with cold
Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?
mortal wretch,
Ay, ay: I care not for good life.
That no particular scandal once can touch
Go forward.
I am not gamesome: I do lack some part
Re-enter HERMIA
She-wolf of France, but worse than wolves of France,
Yet so much is my poverty of spirit,
The origin and commencement of his grief
Alas, she hath from France too long been chased,
To quicken your increase, I will beget
Came more and more and fought on part and part,
Sir, I can nothing say,
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
Yet,--
thought any such matter: God is my witness, I am
What, was I married to her in my dream?
And this, indeed, O world, the heart of thee.
What, talking with a priest, lord chamberlain?
present at his examination: if he do not, for the
She is damned for it.
And here's the base fruit of his burning lust.
yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to
every morning.
Whereon Hyperion's quickening fire doth shine;
me to 't. But they say the duke will be here
Appear and aid me in this enterprise.
called which I apprehended with the aforesaid
Than out of anger can be uttered.
SCENE IV. The platform.
Conformable as other household Kates.
And, with thy hand, thy faith irrevocable,
men, and remain a beast with the beasts?
'A re,' to Plead Hortensio's passion;
you might slip away ere he came. But what make you here?
That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
Do appear, to make the world twice rich. Live,
To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
For even to vice
Shalt carry from me to the empress' sons
They sit and mark
Presenting LUCENTIO
Nor no man else: all's cheerless, dark, and deadly.
And, to the advantage, I, being here, took't up.
the attempt I vow.
Exeunt LUCIUS and Lords
And if the boy have not a woman's gift
A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,
Basely insinuate and send us gifts.
Bishop of Exeter, his brother there,
What do you pity, sir?
I have seen two such sights, by sea and by land!
Concerning you.
A knight of Sparta, my renowned father;
And rattles in their hands: upon a sudden,
And say'st it is not fit.
In cradle-clothes our children where they lay,
Bohemia greets you from himself by me;
My gracious lord, entreat him, speak him fair.
Your naked infants spitted upon pikes,
His peace with Rome? What is that peace to me?
themselves. What wouldst thou do with the world,
O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah Claudius!
so.'
At large discoursed in this paper here.
South from the mighty power of the king.
Quite besides
I thank you all and here dismiss you all,
An aged interpreter, though young in days:
But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
die. I have letters that my son will be here
That dost this habitation, where thou keep'st,
Are come from visiting his majesty.
sir, is a good tripping measure; or the bells of
My will! 'od's heartlings, that's a pretty jest
Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you
Not one of those but had a noble father.
Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins
Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison:
that I love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father,
'twould not ha' bin zo long as 'tis by a vortnight.
I found it by the barrenness; hard in the palm of the hand.
Or let us lose it. We do here pronounce,
The tucket sonance and the note to mount;
A prize no less in worth: keep this man safe;
what we know:
No impediment between, but that you must
Plough Rome and harrow Italy: I'll never
I say you shall.
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
Lucentio, gentle sir.
Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.
I might ask you for your commission; but I do take
Samson, master: he was a man of good carriage, great
He's of the colour of the nutmeg.
Re-enter OTHELLO
It requires swift foot.
Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
Which steals itself, when there's no mercy left.
Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
Your safety, for the which myself and them
So long in his unlucky Irish wars
If not most mortal to him. But, let it come.
I am glad you're well.
the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue
If more thou dost perceive, let me know more;
Or if you will, to speak more properly,
Lucilius' Servant	                  Welcome, good brother.
child of her.
Peace, cousin, say no more:
To fill the world with vicious qualities.
Pray you, undo this button: thank you, sir.
Though to have her and death were both one thing.
when I left him.
seem to do that fearfully which you commit
Will he give you the nod?
What noise there, ho?
My noble lord and father, live in fame!
Gloucester. Seek out where thy father is, that he
What dost thou think 'tis worth?
Lead our first battle: worthy Macduff and we
Let me have audience for a word or two:
I will marry her, sir, at your request: but if there
Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience
Pray you, come near: if I suspect without cause,
Here alarum; they are beaten back by the English with great loss. Re-enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER
The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
That instant was I turn'd into a hart;
So well, nothing so well; no, nor mean better:
And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
But now I know her: if she be a traitor,
Kiss it, my warrior: he hath fought to-day
Still as the grave. Shall she come in? were't good?--
No more, perchance, does mine, nor his, nor hers.
I'll have done presently.
worse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.
At the park gate; and therefore haste away,
found it, and there an end.
If the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating
That makes the wappen'd widow wed again;
Whom have we here? Buckingham, to disturb me?
from lenders' books, and defy the foul fiend.
accordant, he meant to take the present time by the
With the Moor, say'st thou? Who would be a father!
Gracious Lavinia, Rome's rich ornament,
Pour all your tears! I am your sorrow's nurse,
How now! what mean'st thou, that thou help'st me not?
Upon thine honour, is he prisoner?
That thou art thus estranged from thyself?
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind;
But even the very middle of my heart
Some haunted by the ghosts they have deposed;
To GONERIL
And so do I; yet did she call me so:
With lustier maintenance than I did look for
O my Lord Abergavenny, fare you well!
his happier affairs may be, are to me unknown: but I
How now! what letter are you reading there?
The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper,
Even such as they give out. I like your work;
The truth on our side.
That so his sickness, age and impotence
Her mother hath many times told me so.
Shall mistress be of it, save I alone.
And turn'd into the extremity of love.
Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor,
Galen is but empiricutic, and, to this preservative,
Must feel war's blow, who spares not innocence:
not to dog him: they say he keeps a Trojan
Than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder;
Give me thy hand; here's my purse. Hast any of thy
Against your peace. Thee of thy son, Alonso,
But to go hang my head all at one side,
Most true; the law shall bruise him.
Sir, you and I must part, but that's not it:
Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light.
This good man,--few of you deserve that title,--
I have forgot my part, and I am out,
Prunes the immortal wing and cloys his beak,
'Twill be deliver'd back on good condition.
Where is the gentleman that was with her?
O my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord,
But like to groves, being topp'd, they higher rise.
How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.
That dignifies the renown of a bawd, no less than it
To feel only looking on fairest of fair:
So could I too.
Which do command them. With him I sent the queen;
Why, what a brood of traitors have we here!
Now, Hal, what time of day is it, lad?
care of him: I would not have him miscarry for the
How far into the morning is it, lords?
And, by thy guess, how nigh is Clarence now?
In the sight
Even just the sum that I do owe to you
Brother Petruchio, sister Katharina,
Of those that lawless and incertain thought
A very little little let us do.
To you Duke Humphrey must unload his grief,
Now, my lord.
O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty!
Why such unplausive eyes are bent on him:
When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
That men shall swear I have discontinued school
And do such bitter business as the day
throw it to.
And take upon's the mystery of things,
A nurse of me. Lord, how your favour's changed
of ambition, an envious emulator of every man's
'Shall I bid him go, and spare not?'
That brought thee to this world.
nothing; and that that I did, I was set on to do't
Live thou, I live: with much, much more dismay
Away with scrupulous wit! now arms must rule.
Say, how grows it due?
fortunes against any lay worth naming, this
Enter Time, the Chorus
How now! what's the matter? who was here?
Yet herein will I imitate the sun,
That metal, that self-mould, that fashion'd thee
it shines every where. I would be sorry, sir, but
And every true heart weeps for't: all that dare
And leave eighteen. Alas, poor princess,
My thanks and duty are your majesty's.
I am no villain.
must act for me, if thy faith be not tainted with
Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot,
Enter DESDEMONA, CASSIO, and EMILIA
My father of this business.
Or a dog, that seems a-sleeping:
but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
Plague on't, an I thought he had been valiant and so
Exit
gentlemen.
Mark'd you his lip and eyes?
way.
And smell of calumny. I have begun,
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.
Recoil upon me: in himself too mighty,
discover his government.
Good: I will expect you.
I should have given him tears unto entreaties,
That in his nonage council under him,
Which sounded like a clamour in a vault,
For happy wife, a most distressed widow;
I mean for your particular,--you had not
Exeunt
And make us heirs of all eternity.
work? There; give it your hobby-horse: wheresoever
And in the end meet the old course of death,
By friendship nor by speaking.'
She shall be dignified with this high honour--
Why, Harry, do I tell thee of my foes,
The first time ever Caesar put it on;
Forbid the smiling courtesy of love
Exit
Come here to-day.
And not without desert so well reputed.
He was a prince.
will hack; and so thou shouldst not alter the
Then brook abridgment, and your eyes advance,
Moy shall not serve; I will have forty moys;
Nay, a mother:
If that young Arthur be not gone already,
pagan, most sweet Jew! if a Christian did not play
Deliver'd to us; and for him forthwith,
With opportunity of sharp revenge
all shall flout me out of my calling.
Enter PANTHINO
There Diomed doth feast with him to-night;
I pray you.
on! stir them on!
He had, my lord; and that it was which caused
[Within]  Who is that at the door that keeps all
Of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe
And wish for all that, that I had not killed them;
Against the Roman state, whose course will on
danced before the king; and not the worst of the
More like a god than you. Will you deliver
Remembrance of my father-in-law, the duke,
I love Lavinia more than all the world.
and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath
Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,
Re-enter TROILUS
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
We must do something, and i' the heat.
Undone by goodness! Strange, unusual blood,
That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
Even with the fierce looks of these bloody men.
To serve, and to deserve my mistress' grace;
And 'tis this fever that keeps Troy on foot,
Well done, my lord.
Faith, as cold as can be.
Hear patiently my purpose: I'll disrobe me
Scholars allow'd freely to argue for her.
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
Enter BRAKENBURY
They will digest this harsh indignity.
a fair end.
Of the imperial theme.--I thank you, gentlemen.
And not as our confusion, all thy powers
Not like a formal man.
Bequeath thy land to him and follow me?
It is no other: show your wisdom, daughter,
That comes to hazard for my worthless self.
What, canst thou say all this, and never blush?
No cause!
Draw, archers, draw your arrows to the head!
I must go victual Orleans forthwith.
Not to consider in what case thou stand'st,
The causes of their death appear, unto
Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus' horse;
For every cloud engenders not a storm.
But, had it been the brother of my blood,
Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.
Or breed itself so out of circumstance,
Instance, briefly; come, instance.
Not so, not so;
Provokes me to this threefold perjury;
Twenty-three days
I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
Not as death's dart, being laugh'd at; his
Crier Hobgoblin, make the fairy oyes.
Speak thou for me and tell them what I did.
If God prevent not, I purpose so.
Well fare you, gentleman: give me your hand;
And with this hateful liquor temper it;
Athwart the sea. Behold, the English beach
Burning, scalding, stench, consumption; fie,
This field shall hold me; and so hold your vow:
other, if she will not discover it.
My famous cousin to our Grecian tents.
Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
Hal! a plague upon you both! Bardolph! Peto!
Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
Whereon this month I have been hammering.
Laus Deo, bene intelligo.
It is the curse of kings to be attended
Would they work in mild aspect!
Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved,
Sirrah, fetch drier logs:
Marry, and it shall be done to-morrow morning, if I
make noise enough.
And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
Thus far,
For treason is but trusted like the fox,
name; I have done.
And after summer evermore succeeds
That, with this little arm and this good sword,
The foe is merciless, and will not pity;
The queen is valued thirty thousand strong,
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
Say that King Edward take thee for his queen?
heir to the crown.
If it be, sir, I pray you, eat none of it.
So in the world; 'tis furnish'd well with men,
That ever lived.
That every minute of his being thrusts
May know wherefore we took the sacrament
Enter Second Merchant and ANGELO
enforce them against him: we shall find this friar a
I know it well.
Our great self and our credit, to esteem
Then, nobly, York; 'tis for a crown thou fight'st.
And word it, prithee, piteously: hence, Mardian,
To signify the approaching of his lord;
Let me alone with him.
I must not hear thee; fare thee well, kind maid;
But, most of all, agreeing with the proclamation.
be I will call upon you anon, for some advantage to yourself.
It is the emperor, madam.
How now! what is in you? why dost thou tear it?
Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding
Where they should be relieved. Two beggars told me
My charms I'll break, their senses I'll restore,
The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'ldst shun a bear;
Your noble mother: and, as I hear, my lord,
What, shall these papers lie like tell-tales here?
The meanest house in Rome, so far my son--
A quiet night; and my good mistress will
that I have seen, some shall see.
I will come to your worship to-morrow morning.
Thither he darts it. Bosom up my counsel,
Faith, sir, a' has an English name; but his fisnomy
me she did affect me: and I have heard herself come
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
SCENE III. Edward's camp, near Warwick.
What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah:
And I this.
beast, abide?
Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
I'll be no longer guilty of this sin; this sanguine
should marry twenty husbands. If he would despise me
Yield him, who all thy human sons doth hate,
And more above, hath his solicitings,
Come hither, gentlemen,
To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
Be that thou know'st thou art, and then thou art
Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
The subject of our watch.
On a dissension of a doit, break out
youth, grieve, be effeminate, changeable, longing
Of your dead queen.
The Moor already changes with my poison:
Drove back again unto my native clime?
To keep us in false gaze. When we consider
Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.
him: if you would not, it were a good sign
Re-enter BIONDELLO
May read strange matters. To beguile the time,
Come up into my chamber.
Who's his lieutenant, hear you?
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
For the great swing and rudeness of his poise,
Sir Robert never holp to make this leg.
What ho! Lucetta!
the lip of his mistress: your diet shall be in all
Will bear no colour for the thing he is,
Here is a path to't: 'tis some savage hold:
strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
How now, how now, mad wag! what, in thy quips and
I am sure I saw her wear it.
I'ld let a parish of such Clotens' blood,
Should have an army for an usher, and
And you the queen on't.
To those that cry by night, convey thy deity
that I have sent her, by her own command
Forbear, Seleucus.
He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain
The senators of Rome are this good belly,
A lord of Trojan blood, nephew to Hector;
And on all sides the authority allow'd;
Welcome, Iago; we must to the watch.
Enter OSWALD
Yea, brought her hither,
have perceived a most faint neglect of late; which I
Prithee, son, do; for we must be gentle, now we are
And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow;
And punish that before that he would punish.
not open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in
There is my hand, and let it feel your ear.
That fools should be so deep-contemplative,
Though all these English and their discipline
fights not. For Pistol, he hath a killing tongue
They were not with Bassanio in his ship.
Is slander to your royal dignity.
Hapless AEgeon, whom the fates have mark'd
gallant king!
And wherein Rome hath done you any scath,
They say, my lords, 'ira furor brevis est;' but yond
if I have horns to make one mad, let the proverb go
it hath seen very hot service. Lend me thy hand,
That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
be i' the camp, a Frenchman; what his reputation is
As well as speak--it tauntingly replied
Here, sir; but trouble him not, his wits are gone.
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
To bring me where to speak with Madam Silvia.
Enter BASSANIO, PORTIA, GRATIANO, NERISSA, and Attendants
SCENE II. A room in the palace.
This tale of Herne the hunter for a truth.
Exit one with the Clerk
Why, then he will say we stabbed him sleeping.
Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers
Than are upon you yet.
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
There wanteth but a mean to fill your song.
laughing-stocks to other men's humours; I desire you
petition of monarchs. Here comes your father.
Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand,
Enter CLIFFORD and Soldiers
Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
As we are mock'd with art.
And either victory, or else a grave.
But let him swear so, and he shall not stay,
The French ambassador upon that instant
By the bare scalp of Robin Hood's fat friar,
Pierce into that; but I can see his pride
Come, tie his body to my horse's tail;
thee; but being assured none but myself could move
Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes
To BIANCA
Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Fool-hardiness; not I.
But the plain devil and dissembling looks,
To bitterest enmity: so, fellest foes,
Thou for whom Jove would swear
Ay, of my pigeons, sir; nothing else.
what o' that?
God turn their hearts! I never sought their malice--
Avaunt! and quit my sight! let the earth hide thee!
Your pleasure was my mere offence, my punishment
Know, thou sad man, I am not Tamora;
And every word in it a gaping wound,
But I shall, in a more continuate time,
Had I a sister were a grace, or a daughter a goddess,
I'll send him certain word of my success.
Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet,
For night-owls shriek where mounting larks
Can chase away the first-conceived sound?
Enter GRATIANO and SALARINO, masqued
Re-enter BIONDELLO
[Beating him]  You cur!
Upon the winds command, bind them in brass,
My mistress made it one upon my cheek:
you?
A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
Of murderous subornation, shall it be,
Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge,
I do assure you, 'tis against my will.
Some falls are means the happier to arise.
Commend me to my wife. I'll return consul;
That, like a jewel, has hung twenty years
Of its right father. Blossom, speed thee well!
The childing autumn, angry winter, change
Ladies, a general welcome from his grace
[To IMOGEN]	Brother, stay here
Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven;
fornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there.
Enter an AEdile
Thee will I love and with thee lead my life:
The worse to her, the better loved of me.
Whom we have left protectors of the king,
I can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it:
Enter CAPULET, LADY  CAPULET, Nurse, and two Servingmen
Stokesly and Gardiner; the one of Winchester,
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
The legions and the horse whole, do you not?
Unknown to you, unsought, were clipp'd about
SCENE I. A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.
And afterward by substitute betroth'd
Beast!
'He that is giddy thinks the world turns round:'
But this I think, there's no man is so vain
And we shall shock them. Nought shall make us rue,
So soon be drawn, nor did he think it meet
A proper jest, and never heard before,
Enter BORACHIO
them: there may be matter in it.
As if that luck, in very spite of cunning,
Made senseless things begin to do them wrong;
whose names yet run smoothly in the even road of a
We twain will go into his highness' tent.
my displeasure. That young start-up hath all the
For them to play upon, entreats you pity him:
A right good mark-man! And she's fair I love.
My everlasting doom of banishment.
That such immanity and bloody strife
SCENE I. KING JOHN'S palace.
a very good blade! a very tall man! a very good
would, sir, as my father shall specify--
And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,
Perchance! nay, and most like:
His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on?
Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?
He labour'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
But all in vain; they had no heart to fight,
Your temples burned in their cement, and
that may turn back to my advancement? I will bring
Now, in good time!
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
Yet he is come.
It doth appear; for, upon these taxations,
Though you be therein curious, the least cause
Though he hath fallen by prompture of the blood,
things; and, to conclude, they are lying knaves.
Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
say Amen. What ho! my Lord Achilles!
Toad, that under cold stone
How should that be?
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
Look to your little mistress, on whose grace
Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.
Reigns in my blood and will remember'd be.
That no dissension hinder government:
And would conceive for what I gave the ring
A federary with her, and one that knows
understand so much, and therefore comes to speak
And live you yet?
naming punishes me with the remembrance of that
helped her: there your charity would have lacked footing.
By whom, AEneas?
Ready to starve and dare not touch his own:
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Who, finger'd to make man his lawful music,
By earth, she is not, corporal, there you lie.
I do not find that thou dealest justly with me.
I am content: Richard Plantagenet,
For ever housed where it gets possession.
[To OCTAVIUS CAESAR]  Thus do they, sir: they take
Enter SPEED
That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
Ah, Joan, sweet daughter Joan, I'll die with thee!
She makes our profession as it were to stink afore
A murder, which I thought a sacrifice:
stand still; it is shame, by my hand: and there is
Why went you not with master doctor, maid?
Cry 'Caesar!' Speak; Caesar is turn'd to hear.
Ay, sir.
I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy,
With duty and desire we follow you.
And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,
This boy, that cannot tell what he would have
A plot upon her virtuous husband's life;
Which is as brief as I have known a play;
Art thou a churchman?
Never to marry but by my free leave?
Slaughters a thousand waiting upon that.
You would have follow'd.
Of a cut loaf to steal a shive, we know:
And to that place the sharp Athenian law
Come, Hippolyta.
Yet am I thankful: if my heart were great,
Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
This Tarsus, o'er which I have the government,
As thus, 'Come, little ones,' and then again,
What say you, lords? Why, this was quite forgot.
Enter Provost, CLAUDIO, JULIET, and Officers
My good lords, hitherto, in all the progress
Take thou no scorn to wear the horn;
That you might kill your stomach on your meat
ANTIPHOLUS
And would not, but in fury, fright my youth:
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
Of his queen mother, which for more probation
Portia, forgive me this enforced wrong;
beast, I say:--I was sending to use Lord Timon
And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet,
find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge:
What news, friar, of the duke?
Lysander, keep thy Hermia; I will none:
From forth thy plenteous bosom, one poor root!
I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow.
O, attend, my daughter:
I say she's dead; I'll swear't. If word nor oath
That always favour'd him.
that he hath devised in these three chests of gold,
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
My Lord Chatillon may from England bring,
But that the guilt of murder bucklers thee
But, tell me, where is princely Richmond now?
O Dionyza,
makes very ill-favouredly.
Farewell, good Salisbury; and good luck go with thee!
And as the dam runs lowing up and down,
That it might go on wheels!
In monumental mockery. Take the instant way;
And you three shall be strangled on the gallows.
Who once a day with his embossed froth
They do me wrong, and I will not endure it:
many of us: that we did, we did for the best; and
Unfit to live or die: O gravel heart!
whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws.
And suddenly resolve me in my suit.
Flow this way! A brave fellow! he keeps his tides
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
By heaven, I think there's no man is secure
To stay for me at church 'twixt twelve and one,
That might relieve you!
Will thereto be obedient, I have reason;
Be not denied access, stand at her doors,
The issue of the next son should have reign'd.
For we will shake him, or worse days endure.
The higher powers forbid!
were so simple, none else would: but you are so
Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
Stands apart
Was ever known so great and little loss
before ever he saw those pancakes or that mustard.
On purpose shut the doors against his way.
I never saw so huge a billow, sir,
Here comes the fool, i' faith.
I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day
Give signal to the fight, and to it, lords!
Choose Caesar for their king.
I will.
Is there not a double excellency in this?
I have been bold--
Yea, faith itself to hollow falsehood change!
With all advantages.
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, and Attendants
O miserable thought! and more unlikely
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
Both of you
Zeal and obedience he still bore your grace,
my bounty further.
Marry, thus: when it stands well with him, it
Never departed more.
'Tis true.
I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never
I have perform'd my task and was espoused:
Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch:
In general synod 'take away her power;
Sweep your way for you. Pray you, look not sad,
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
the complaints I have heard of you I do not all
This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up,
Come on, then,
I prithee, good Grumio, tell me, how goes the world?
And buy a rope's end: that will I bestow
'Thank God;' a good answer. Art rich?
Which in the bluster of thy wrath must fall
No, I know that: but it is fit I should commit
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
For, in my mind, you are much bound to him.
Sweet huntsman, Bassianus 'tis we mean--
Exit Vintner
Music, ho! music, such as charmeth sleep!
left, till he cast bells, steeple, church, and
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again,
If it conceived a male child by me, should
What news?
O happy man! they have befriended thee.
Their manners are so apish.
MARIANA veiled, ISABELLA, and FRIAR PETER, at their  stand. Enter DUKE VINCENTIO, VARRIUS, Lords,  ANGELO, ESCALUS, LUCIO, Provost, Officers, and Citizens, at several doors
What means that bloody knife?
Than breath or pen can give expressure to:
And spur thee on with full as many lies
Each bound it chafes. What have you there?
And with my fingers feel his hand unfeeling:
They that stabb'd Caesar shed no blood at all,
Go, masters, get you home; be not dismay'd:
must be content.
Well, your old vice still; mistake the word. What
Nor bruise her flowerets with the armed hoofs
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
Your answer, sir.
As a tired horse, a railing wife;
The like from him.
Certainly
him. It is now high suppertime, and the night grows
Now will I to that old Andronicus;
O Paulina,
And till he tell the truth,
than beauteous, truer than truth itself, have
And thou that smiledst at good Duke Humphrey's death,
Kills TITUS
of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.
Well, sir.
Launcelot, the Jew's man, and I am sure Margery your
What would she have?
Speak, Edmund, where's the king? and where's Cordelia?
And they shall be themselves.
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
Methought this staff, mine office-badge in court,
What we have two nights seen.
leopard: wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to
Be here at Belmont; she doth stray about
That Julius Caesar was a famous man;
Enter Nurse, to the chamber
Of his own body he was ill, and gave
What news, Borachio?
I assure you, there is very excellent services
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
I see things too, although you judge I wink.
To seal love's bonds new-made, than they are wont
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
My lords ambassadors, your several suits
Spoke he of me?
I can express no kinder sign of love
desolate. I see them lay their heads together to
If she deny to wed, I'll crave the day
I do remember well where I should be,
Let ordinance
I grant him bloody,
In breaking faith with Julia whom I loved:
Ha! 'tis he, indeed:
And I have heard, you knights of Tyre
'Faith, and so we should;
May bare the raven's eye! I lodge in fear;
'Tis like the commons, rude unpolish'd hinds,
I have not seen you long: how goes the world?
Les ongles? nous les appelons de nails.
The commons haply rise, to save his life;
There lies your way, due west.
should counterfeit too and rise? by my faith, I am
Now, tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?
As sure as in this late-betrayed town
Unto the state of Venice.
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
So may it come, thy master, whom thou lovest,
My mind presumes, for his own good and ours.
Threw him ashore, to give him glad:
For the whole state, I would put mine armour on,
Then he is dead?
charge of foot; and I know his death will be a
Go to thy death-bed:
No, no. Come, I am for no more bawdy-houses:
Tell him, and spare not: look, what I have said
Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight
this other day, because I was no gentleman born.
By whose approach the regions of Artois,
And sear up my embracements from a next
Hath almost ended his life's history:
what news?
'Solus,' egregious dog? O viper vile!
Give him a little earth for charity!'
forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings!
And therefore, personally I lay my claim
Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst;
Here's a few flowers; but 'bout midnight, more:
So dear the love my people bore me, nor set
Of Edward king, the third of that descent:
ANTIPHOLUS
Instructs you how to adore the heavens and bows you
question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer. I
The unowed interest of proud-swelling state.
O villain!
His deeds with doing them, and is content
Did not I tell thee yea? hadst thou not order?
Of mighty opposites.
Have I not reason, think you, to look pale?
But only painted, like his varnish'd friends?
I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.
Hath raised me from my bed, nor doth the general care
'My daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter!
This quarrel will drink blood another day.
This is a sleepy tune. O murderous slumber,
How many make the hour full complete;
Drabbing: you may go so far.
Where that his lords desire him to have borne
Most sweet queen,--
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
But with his last attempt he wiped it out;
Tell her the process of Antonio's end;
You would have been contracted to a maid;
While one would wink; denied me mine own purse,
And sped you, sir?
To have her back return'd: thus to persist
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd,
Did you by indirect and forced courses
That longer you desire the court; as well
A parlous boy: go to, you are too shrewd.
Once more, take her hence.
For my little cure,
If this be he you oft have wish'd to hear from.
I'll slash; I'll do it by the sword. I bepray you,
Of a glad father compass thee about!
My lord!
Till it fly out and show them princes born.
He would kiss you twenty with a breath.
And in the stocks avouch it.
Mine and your mistress! O, my lord Posthumus!
Why, so: being gone,
And bound them.
To break the vow I am engaged in;
court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save
Alarum. Enter AENEAS
Comets, importing change of times and states,
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
As it is like him--might break out, and swear
Hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
If he come not, then the play is marred: it goes
Cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius:
SCENE II. The same. A room in the palace.
Will take the crown. The sum of this,
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Attendants with torches
A Veronesa; Michael Cassio,
Of Lady Eleanor, the protector's wife,
my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have our answer.
Son, I'll be your half, Bianca comes.
This it is:
Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys,
In faith, I cannot: what would you have me do?
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing
Well mock'd.
He's coming; I perceive 't.
But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth.
Of nothing so much as that I am not like Timon.
Enter CLOTEN
I shall have share in this most happy wreck.
Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
And from her womb children of divers kind
Than are the tender horns of cockl'd snails;
Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner:
Who freely give to every one that comes
Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
And would, as I shall pity, I could help!
Mighty and to be fear'd, than my condition;
Are you a woman?
Pleading for a lover's fee.
Is gone to meet the king, who lately landed
This will I do, and this I will advise you:
Patience, I pray you; 'twas a fault unwilling.
With the help of a surgeon he might yet recover, and
Parolles, was it not?
Fie, painted rhetoric! O, she needs it not:
And thy unkindness be like crooked age,
Hold you the watch to-night?
A recreant and most degenerate traitor
I swear--
they belie her. Lie with her! that's fulsome.
My fate cries out,
Hector's a gallant man.
ass; though it be not written down, yet forget not
To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep
stands, I could heartily wish this had not befallen;
they would whip me with their fine wits till I were
he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish-
I pray you, tell Signior Lucentio that his father is
What, my lord! dispraise?
I crave our composition may be written,
Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire?
Exeunt
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
[Aside to ISABELLA]           Ay, well said.
You're welcome, sir; and he, for your good sake.
Where shame doth harbour, even in Mowbray's face.
For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
Of every beardless vain comparative,
I know not; but
I'll make my match to live,
Speak not so grossly. You are all amazed:
He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,
Hath not essentially but by circumstance
How, my lord!
Stands without blemish. Next, it imports no reason
He talks at random; sure, the man is mad.
That is the best news: that the Earl of Richmond
Heavily, heavily.
Whether a maid so tender, fair and happy,
Bring me to hear them speak, where I may be concealed.
This is unlikely:
Why had I not with charitable hand
Will rouse the proudest panther in the chase,
Save yourself, my lord:
We are shame-proof, my lord: and tis some policy
No court, no father; nor no more ado
Alarum, and chambers go off
Was never subject long'd to be a king
The sum of all our answer is but this:
Whereby I see that Time's the king of men,
Enter an old Athenian
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
My lord, there is a messenger from Rome
But, by the forge that stithied Mars his helm,
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
Heavy matters! heavy matters! but look thee here,
Bull-bearing Milo his addition yield
With the help of your good hands:
Speak, speak.
but, to my thinking, he was very loath to lay his
Whether for east or west: the dearth is great;
In filial obligation for some term
In a trice,
Enter CLEOPATRA and her maids aloft, with CHARMIAN and IRAS
Madam, I had.
True nobility is exempt from fear:
I'll bring you to the gates.
Alas the day, I know not! There is no woman's gown
So every scope by the immoderate use
This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt,
Himself in person there?
that word?
Flourish
Apollo, Pallas, Jove, or Mercury,
That yet can do thee office? If thou hast,
Come, coz; come, coz; we stay for you. A word with
The lustre of the better yet to show,
It hath to climb. The general's disdain'd
By your leave.
To saucy doubts and fears. But Banquo's safe?
Buz, buz!
The hunt is up, the morn is bright and grey,
Call for some men of sound direction
That, ere she sleep, has thrice her prayers said,
And keep their teeth clean.
I will chop her into messes: cuckold me!
Take on with me and ne'er be satisfied!
But where's the money?
Canst thou, when thou command'st the beggar's knee,
How dost thou mean a fat marriage?
be, I will marry thee, and to that end I have been
That never object pleasing in thine eye,
If I pervert your course. Who's here?
Look on me with your welkin eye: sweet villain!
'Tis Banquo's then.
doublet and hose and leaves off his wit!
O, doubt not that;
Nay, let me praise you while I have a stomach.
Is, that he was the lord ambassador
How! a king's daughter?
You shall be king.
Why, I was writing of my epitaph;
Nor I.
Beg thou, or borrow, to make up the sum,
How now, my dear Othello!
And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou darest.
Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body,
As every loyal subject ought to do.
Olivia's father took much delight in. He is about the house.
Poor heart, adieu! I pity thy complaining.
Enter AENEAS and Trojans
How now?
As you owe to your wife.
You, sir, what trade are you?
times in the thought they were not fairies: and yet
Why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him?
Thus it goes:--
spoken; I have locked the letter in my closet:
Foul disproportion thoughts unnatural.
Like a dull actor now,
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,
Now, by my life, this day grows wondrous hot;
comes there any more of it?
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
Sad tidings bring I to you out of France,
The closing up of our most wretched eyes;
And they that are most galled with my folly,
Can you not see? or will ye not observe
By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
And sold to slavery, of my redemption thence
The Countess Richmond, good my Lord of Derby.
Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallow-rooted;
That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
To be relinquish'd of the artists,--
His wife, an't like your worship.
I take my leave of you.
The will! the testament!
He hath a trick of Coeur-de-lion's face;
cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a
But as this title honours me and mine,
Good friar, I know you do, and have found it.
wilful Actaeon; and to these violent proceedings all
A present murderer does prepare
Of as great size. Ween you of better luck,
No, they cannot touch me for coining; I am the
Upon the which, that every one may read,
If this division chance, ne'er stood between,
To that which had too much:' then, being there alone,
on he has the cramp.
Enters the gates
And entertain a cheerful disposition.
Now welcome more, and ten times more beloved,
Nay, but the devil take mocking: speak, sad brow and
A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness,
as his finger. And thou wert best look to't; for if
Hold thee, there's my purse: I give thee not this
Titus, I am come to talk with thee.
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
You came, I think, from France?
Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die,
And never stays to greet him; 'Ay' quoth Jaques,
Unhappy were you, madam, ere I came;
As more at large your grace shall understand.
Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain:
They'll talk of state; for every one doth so
Did come to languish, and indeed, my lord,
A good digestion to you all: and once more
He did, and from my finger snatch'd that ring.
Ere he take ship for France, and in Southampton.
hill, let him draw thee after. When a wise man
something. But say, sir, is it dinner-time?
Have you not made an universal shout,
Teach not thy lips such scorn, for they were made
Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow.
Dream of success and happy victory!
PROLOGUE
Think'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly
Scornful Lysander! true, he hath my love,
faults whipped them not; and our crimes would
What, are you mad, that you do reason so?
love perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
Men's evil manners live in brass; their virtues
seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast, washes his
Before God! and, in my mind, very wise.
Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance,
O, yes, and soundless too;
You'll find it otherwise, I assure you: therefore,
In personal action, yet prodigious grown
He shall not live.
I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.
by the moon. As, for proof, now: a purse of gold
What, the sword and the word! do you study them
The augurer tells me we shall have news to-night.
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
Cry  'Havoc,' and let slip the dogs of war;
From jealousy!
I embrace you.
Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that 'Caesar'?
Why not on Proteus, as of all the rest?
With those gross taunts I often have endured.
Which I have sometime known.
Trumpets sounded, and the coffin laid in the tomb
To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
The royal banner, and all quality,
Why, madam, that is to the Isle of Man;
As bombast and as lining to the time:
Where's Bede? Go you, and where you find a maid
And darest not stand, nor look me in the face.
Although, I know, you 'll swear, terribly swear
That daily break-vow, he that wins of all,
for being old before thy time.
Appear in person here in court. Silence!
And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
Behold, it is the privilege of mine honours,
To plead for love deserves more fee than hate.
Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks.
Than to be perk'd up in a glistering grief,
encounter, after we had embraced, kissed, protested,
A murrain on't! I took this for silver.
Whispers
God-den, our neighbours.
Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe!
Doth your highness call?
For mine own part,--no offence to the general, nor
For thou art framed of the firm truth of valour.
Though they would swear down each particular saint,
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool
Caesar refused the crown that it had almost choked
Certes, she did; the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you.
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
Why, what a king is this!
love not Marcius.
Madam,
You know now your hostages; your uncle's word and my
Give me your hand:
false of heart that way; and that he knew, I warrant
Lives in these touches, livelier than life.
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
That I should open to the listening air
Gives him a letter
But be as Ajax.
That make her good? O, let her brother live!
Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at:
Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;
My holy lord of Milan, from the king
Enter LODOVICO and GRATIANO
A happy and a joyful time of day!
perpetual triumph, an everlasting bonfire-light!
Which here we came to spout against your town,
Enter CASSIO
needs be hanged with your pardons about your necks?
My lord, prince Pericles is fled.
The gravity and stillness of your youth
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
'Tis a spirit: sometime't appears like a lord;
chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the manner
Took it in snuff; and still he smiled and talk'd,
And with his troops doth march amain to London;
Egypt, thou knew'st too well
Thus part we rich in sorrow, parting poor.
In choosing for yourself, you show'd your judgment,
He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--
Since, wedding it, there is such length in grief;
Despair not, madam.
Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?
More wonderful, when angels are so angry.
To such whose place is under us, requires
Can such things be,
No.
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
O, you say well.
Tell me some reason why the Lady Grey
Octavius, I have seen more days than you:
Honour and virtue and conversed with such
released and delivered over to the king her father,
If she and I be pleased, what's that to you?
Of such a thing as thou, to fear, not to delight.
Yet let us watch the haughty cardinal:
There is not one word apt, one player fitted:
Who's there, I say? How dare you thrust yourselves
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
Men, more divine, the masters of all these,
revenue: then your hose should be ungartered, your
O, that's the case of the shepherd's son: hang him,
Grown to this faction in the Temple-garden,
To prick us to redress? what other bond
Thou shalt be heavily punished.
Now crouches fore the mouse's hole;
I'll apply
It is no act of common passage, but
Exeunt
Present approach.
As poisonous-tongued as handed, hath prevail'd
Stones have been known to move and trees to speak;
You rogue, they were bound, every man of them; or I
SCENE II. Before Bourdeaux.
But she, more covetous, would have a chain.
To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
To excuse the current of thy cruelty.
Serve God, love me and mend. There will I leave
division of the kingdom, it appears not which of
Farewell.
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of
Upon mine honour, thou shalt marry her.
And ran dismay'd away.
Hear me, hear me what I say: he that strikes the
Aumerle, thou weep'st, my tender-hearted cousin!
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
As great to me as late; and, supportable
He loved her, sir, and loved her not.
By heavens, the duke shall know how slack thou art!
Would scour these English hence? Hear'st thou of them?
We'll feast each other ere we part; and let's
My lord's almost so far transported that
Is't possible?
The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow,
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool.
I wish him joy of her.
To you all three,
That do contrive how many hands shall strike,
To this imperial throne. There is no bar
Which draught to me were cordial.
Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you:
Go fetch me a quart of sack; put a toast in't.
Which thou shouldst bear me: only that name remains;
Nothing confutes me but eyes, and nobody sees me.
If thou consider rightly of the matter,
Boatswain!
You have for dignities; to the mere undoing
Glide thither in a day? Then, true Pisanio,--
The more of you 'twas felt, the more it shaped
swallowed one another: I would laugh at that
Peace, ho! Caesar speaks.
We shill employ thee in a worthier place.
Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
Your brother's son shall never reign our king;
What, neither?
What's the matter?
O, quick, or I am gone.
An idle lord. I swear.
And stay here in your court for three years' space.
And struck him on his knee: in that day's feats,
Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost;
Sing still for Richard's soul. More will I do;
ANTIPHOLUS
The king has done you wrong: but, hush, 'tis so.
This same Cranmer's
weighed, that curiosity in neither can make choice
after. Nothing but lechery! all incontinent varlets!
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from
Send thy brass voice through all these lazy tents;
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
And calls them brothers, friends and countrymen.
And so obsequious will thy father be,
magnanimous and most illustrate king Cophetua set
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
We should have both lord and lown, if the peevish
accent: let me supervise the canzonet. Here are
has neither leg, hands, lip, nor cap; and indeed
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
mutiny; whose qualification shall come into no true
But, for the seventh cause; how did you find the
not too late now.
To half a soul and to a notion crazed
The sealing-day betwixt my love and me,
Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
Come, let me wipe thy face.
Not scurvy, nor a temporary meddler,
When many times the captive Grecian falls,
And I, most jocund, apt and willingly,
You have put me out of countenance.
Kisses OCTAVIA
be pold, I pray you; follow me into the pit; and
We have ever your good word.
And witness of the malice and displeasure
Where?
overmastered with a pierce of valiant dust? to make
Where is he wounded?
Hide thy head, Achilles: here comes Hector in arms.
Since he hath got the jewel that I loved,
Re-enter Clown with a letter, and FABIAN
is so admired?
Yea, providently caters for the sparrow,
And, for my sake, stay here with Antony:
customers. First, here's young Master Rash; he's in
[Aside]  For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout:
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
I do not care whether you do or no. She's a fool to
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
O, let me live!
He has my heart yet; and shall have my prayers
And to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence.
SCENE II. London. The palace.
By this Lord Angelo perceives he's safe;
To bring again these foolish runaways.
They think my little stomach to the war
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live;
How now, Fluellen! camest thou from the bridge?
Yet he shall have a noble memory. Assist.
And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
Sir, I thought it fit
can hardly remember.
That, if I then had waked after long sleep,
leave your gaping.
Exit
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
Will fashion the event in better shape
They have sent me such a man I would have wish'd for.
She turn'd to folly, and she was a whore.
And weak we are and cannot shun pursuit.
In mere oppugnancy: the bounded waters
May I, sweet lady, beg a kiss of you?
Foh, foh! come, tell a pin: you are forsworn.
Good morrow to the good Simonides.
The purest treasure mortal times afford
The first, the Retort Courteous; the second, the
That I have been your wife, in this obedience,
SCENE II. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke,
Comfort, my lord; and so I take my leave.
What's the matter with thee now?
in him, that with the mischief of your person it
[Aside]                 What's that to him?
If the first that did the edict infringe
For everlasting bond of fellowship--
Keeps thicket. Please it our great general
Not so, neither; but I am resolved on two points.
But I beseech your grace that I may know
Enter Hostess
And often up and down my sons were toss'd,
Shall I destroy him? whether there, or there, or there?
Who then, affrighted with their bloody looks,
To be thy lord and master: seek the king;
Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
Save that there was not time enough to hear,
my counterfeiting to him. Will you go?
I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
And hire post-horses; I will hence to-night.
And I for sorrow sung,
Break with your wives of your departure hence:
In time we hate that which we often fear.
SCENE I. France. The English camp.
Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
O spite! too old to be engaged to young.
Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent;
Even to the very quality of my lord:
The levied succors that should lend him aid,
Of censuring Rome? Rather a ditch in Egypt
Art thou Revenge? and art thou sent to me,
to my husband he is now here, and hath drawn him and
Discover you abroad?
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
From the rude sea's enraged and foamy mouth
These pretty country folks would lie,
A man I am cross'd with adversity;
Bearing the king in my behalf along;
madness; which was, to forswear the full stream of
wasp's nest; then stand till he be three quarters
Exit ANGELO
the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.
O, then, what graces in my love do dwell,
By running fast.
Yet, Marcius, that was much. Your hand: most welcome!
only numbers ratified; but, for the elegancy,
For he that brought them, in the very heat
With these you bear already.
Adieu, poor soul, that takest thy leave of it!
SCENE II. The same. Another street.
But I have sent for him to answer this;
Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy.
Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
not see Pompey is uncasing for the combat? What mean
This praise doth nourish agues. Let them come:
let it cool the while. I love Benedick well; and I
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
power and corrigible authority of this lies in our
God forgive my sins, and pardon thee!
I do beseech you,
Strikes him
sea-side where my wine is hid. How now, moon-calf!
O, we have made a vow to study, lords,
More matter for a May morning.
Foreknowing that the truth will fall out so.
As heartily as he is glad he hath him.
And here is not a creature but myself,
Exit
To say there is no vice but beggary.
And here I swear by all the Roman gods,
Such short-lived wits do wither as they grow.
Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we!
Either be gone before the watch be set,
I would have salved it with a longer treatise.
Katharina, I charge thee, tell these headstrong women
Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge,
And thou shalt be canonized, cardinal;
And spend her strength with over-matching waves.
Our men be vanquish'd ere they do resist,
it he is to sojourn with you? How creeps
know that of your mouth or of your lips; for divers
Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
I have a suit which you must not deny me;
time of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them?
O Mistress Ford, what have you done? You're shamed,
I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows
What! will you fly, and leave Lord Talbot?
Lest he that is the supreme King of kings
there be hacks!
Would that alone, alone he would detain,
Came to the altar; where she kneel'd, and saint-like
An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife;
quite from the answer of his degree.
conflict four of his five wits went halting off, and
To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.
intended fire your city is ready to flame in, with
No stricter render of me than my all.
Fall into the compass of a praemunire,
Here at the palace I will rest awhile.
Consume your blood with sorrowing: you have
Myself the crying fellow did pursue,
Figured quite o'er with burning meteors.
do not cast away an honest man for a villain's
I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal,
Though tongues were out of use.
A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
They shall be ready at your highness' will
Bad news, my lord: Ely is fled to Richmond;
Which you say adds to nature, is an art
me for ever be your table-sport; let them say of
Hath Britain all the sun that shines? Day, night,
Than when she lived indeed; then shall he mourn,
What shall I swear by?
sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island.
I should inform thee farther. Lend thy hand,
Be assured you may.
Will you walk in to see their gossiping?
My thoughts were like unbridled children, grown
them plainly see't.
They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
But out upon this half-faced fellowship!
By heaven, I would do it.
Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud;
Of all the court and princes of my blood:
That are recorded in this schedule here:
For whose dear sake thou didst then rend thy faith
Ah, York, no man alive so fain as I!
Our great navy's rigg'd.
We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' the sun,
Peace, ho! let us hear him.
There's one did laugh in's sleep, and one cried
Enter ARIEL, invisible, playing solemn music
[Aside]  I wish not so; unless it had been the fall
Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
'Tis well that I get it so. But, Launce, how sayest
Captain Fluellen!
As thou
Please you, sir,
Then, noble York, take thou this task in hand.
But for the end it works to. Come; our stomachs
Under the wings of our protector's grace,
obstruction in this: and the end,--what should
Call me to your remembrances.
live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
Thunder and lightning. Enter CAESAR, in his night-gown
Of Charles the duke of Lorraine, sole heir male
Incenses them to send destruction.
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
Cry 'God for Harry, England, and Saint George!'
than to either of these. God defend me from these
The kings your ancestors, together with
When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
Against that great magician, damn'd Glendower,
Was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee,
But I will have my lord and you again
Hang him, dishonest varlet! we cannot misuse him enough.
another punishment?
Except it be to pray against thy foes.
And Cassio rules in Cyprus. For this slave,
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
And cursed be he that will not second it.
Was Mahomet inspired with a dove?
For my part, if a lie may do thee grace,
Masters, masters,--
A gross hag
Good morrow, Richmond!
That with our small conjunction we should on,
knotted garden: there did I see that low-spirited
For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp,
You'll find it wholesome. Lo, where comes that rock
it, spend it; spend more; spend all I have; only
On her dead mistress; tremblingly she stood
[Aside to CLARENCE] God forbid that! for he'll
He is drunk now: where had he wine?
It shall not neither. You, sir, come you hither;
My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
Contaminate our fingers with base bribes,
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
Revel and feast it at my house to-day,
Attend your ladyship!
Thinks all is writ he speken can;
Your differences shall all rest under gage
On some known ground of treachery in him?
And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
Where now his son's like a glow-worm in the night,
of France: O heavens! that this treason were not,
Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof
to keep his name company!--
Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
To bind him to remember my good will;
That now our loss might be ten times so much?
Conjurers and sorcerers, that afraid of him
For thy escape would teach me tyranny,
As they say spirits do, at midnight, have
I am sure you both of you remember me.
Ha, what say'st thou, Silvius?
Hear me, queen:
and allowed your approach rather to wonder at you
followers, for it appears by their bare liveries,
Sir, pardon; 'tis for Agamemnon's ears.
Instead whereof let this supply the room:
service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar
And he is bred out of that bloody strain
Mustardseed.
To pay this debt of love but to a brother,
Where he was to begin and give away
Let nobody blame him; his scorn I approve,-
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and Attendants
Alarums to the fight, wherein SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD are slain. Enter CADE and the rest
Exeunt
Of what we think against thee.
Exit
SCENE III. The woods. Timon's cave, and a rude tomb seen.
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
And, to his shape, were heir to all this land,
Ladies, there is an idle banquet attends you:
And affecting one sole throne,
This is no answer, thou unfeeling man,
Have to you, but with thanks to God for such
By putting on the destined livery.
Come, come, sweet emperor; come, Andronicus;
So fitly? Go, bid all my friends again,
Counter-gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek
Enter TIMON, in a rage, FLAMINIUS following
Why, there is it: come sing me a bawdy song; make
Call'd Marina
But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh,
Go, stand within; let me alone with him.
Thou pray'st not well.
I shall, between this and supper, tell you most
I will write.
What says Maria?
And for Mark Antony, think not of him;
Thunder. Enter the three Witches
On most part of their fleet.
I have been talking with a suitor here,
The caterpillars of the commonwealth,
How dear a lover of my lord your husband,
Amen. So fall to't:
If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy likeness:
Who by repentance is not satisfied
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together
Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
Hugh Capet also, who usurped the crown
And wonder greatly that man's face can fold
conscience, sir, I do not care for you: if that be
I'll be revenged:
This swears he, as he is a prince, is just;
SCENE VI. Another room in the castle.
Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
Which not to read would show the Britons cold:
twice on the banns; such a commodity of warm slaves,
Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies?
And cabby run on in obedience
The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit,
I'll give you leave to powder me and eat me too
I, that I am one now:
A witty mother! witless else her son.
thought no less: that flattering tongue of yours
myself: they have pitched a toil; I am toiling in
To turn their own points on their masters' bosoms:
An if she do, I would I were an eunuch.
Thus did I keep my person fresh and new;
And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.
Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the Courtezan, and PINCH
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and AJAX
If any man doubt that, let him put me to my
Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd: I'll entreat for thee.
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Ay, good leave have you; for
have brought you from Venice. Watch you to-night;
Play fast and loose with faith? so jest with heaven,
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
Your pleasure be fulfill'd!
And thou art wedded to calamity.
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
To bring me thither?
That for thyself: I will not so presume
Ay, to devour him; as the hungry plebeians would the
His country's peace.
So farewell, Reignier: set this diamond safe
The ground of your ill-will, and so remove it.
Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
I have seen, as that diamond of yours outlustres
And not a man of them that we shall take
By Priam and the general state of Troy:
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
Thou now request'st but moonshine in the water.
I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone.
I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
were best meddle with buck-washing.
A parasite, a keeper back of death,
I here do give thee that with all my heart
I never saw till now. I knew thy grandsire,
I stood upon the hatches in the storm,
That's the least fear; for, by the semblance
A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife;
Going
The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent,
At the twelvemonth's end
ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground;
So be my grave my peace, as here I give
Shall yield the other in the right opinion.
Like valour's minion carved out his passage
suspect thee, when peradventure thou wert accused by
and dare not task my weakness with any more.
Ay.
And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves.
Lest this great sea of joys rushing upon me
Is not this boy revived from death?
Quick, quick; fear nothing; I'll be at thy elbow:
piece of my desires.
Exit, with the body
And then, sir, she bears away. Our fraughtage, sir,
We will, my lord.
Like stinging bees in hottest summer's day
And their executors, the knavish crows,
Pray God the Duke of York excuse himself!
Despised substance of divinest show!
shall 'scape whipping.
betwixt us. Farewell, dear sister: farewell, my
Let them be hunted soundly. At this hour
To make you answer truly to your name.
Exeunt; those above bearing off MARK ANTONY's body
I was a chaste wife to my grave: embalm me,
Accuse some innocent and forswear myself,
What should this be?
thou art nothing.
Which he to seek of me again, perforce,
skill, by so much is a horn more precious than to
any dishonesty.
Your grace may starve perhaps before that time.
Before his sister should her body stoop
To have him see me woman'd.
Grant I may never prove so fond,
There is no malice in this burning coal;
Where you were tied in duty, and as sorry
In practise let us put it presently.
Or if that thou couldst see me without eyes,
This hand, fast wound about thy coal-black hair
For art and exercise in your defence
I am skilless of; but, by my modesty,
No, that you shall not, till you take her hand
Till that the nature of your fault be known
And his achievements of no less account:
Of all their loyalties: wherein, although,
all the gibbets and pressed the dead bodies. No eye
With commendation from great potentates;
Exit PISANIO
I will repeat them,--a, e, i,--
And not with such a cruel threatening look.
To seek her as a bed-fellow,
Despite the bear-ward that protects the bear.
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.
The peril of our curses light on thee
And do you now cull out a holiday?
And be avenged on cursed Tamora.
Re-enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO
Alarum. Enter KING RICHARD III and RICHMOND; they  fight. KING RICHARD III is slain. Retreat and  flourish. Re-enter RICHMOND, DERBY bearing the crown, with divers other Lords
Grants scarce distinction. Thou wilt write to Antony!
And say besides, that in Aleppo once,
It is your husband mock'd you with a husband.
Let us be beaten, if we cannot fight.
Who, earnest in the service of my God,
That life, a very rebel to my will,
This was an ill beginning of the night:
ANTIPHOLUS
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
And why not queen?
Hymen from heaven brought her,
And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,
Go make thyself like a nymph o' the sea: be subject
SCENE II. Before ALBANY's palace.
for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever
Villain, thou liest; for even her very words
But one to dance with! By heaven, I'll steal away.
I more incline to Somerset than York:
And this his son; England was Geffrey's right
May well abate the over-merry spleen
Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off
they shook hands and swore brothers. Your If is the
If we, with thrice such powers left at home,
Exit
The pedant, the braggart, the hedge-priest, the fool
When death doth close his tender dying eyes,
Enter FALSTAFF disguised as Herne
SCENE VIII. Under the walls of Alexandria.
I like the work well: ere it be demanded--
The trusty Thisby, coming first by night,
Insulting tyranny begins to jet
Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
That man should be at woman's command, and yet no
Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?
Do in our eyes begin to lose their gloss,
know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have but
Poland winter: if she lives till doomsday,
With too much urging your pernicious lives,
To you and toward your friend, whose love had spoke,
This is a letter of your own device.
make your two affirmatives why then, the worse for
I have gone all night. 'Faith, I'll lie down and sleep.
Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp.
Hath cost me an hundred crowns since supper-time.
Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love;
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
But he hath chid me hence and threaten'd me
Antony only, that would make his will
I am content, in a good father's care,
and being so hard to me that brought your mind, I
I am a mother to you.
Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius: dost thou think
Bliss and goodness on you!
His arms are only to remove from thee
Thou blushest, Antony; and that blood of thine
I'll prove it on thy heart,
To whose hands have you sent the lunatic king? Speak.
Here come our brothers.
Those clouds removed, upon our watery eyne.
put in the book of virtue!
Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
That, if you fail in our request, the blame
According to my birth. What do you say?
Manner'd as she is born.
Exit
Only for praise sake, when they strive to be
I am no woman, I'll not swoon at it.
With an augmented greeting.
With whose envenomed and fatal sting,
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
Thither will I with you; for little office
And that you not delay the present, but,
and thou art as full of envy at his greatness as
And graceless traitor to her loving lord?
in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is
La main, de hand; les doigts, de fingres. Je pense
Enter LAFEU and BERTRAM
basket again, to meet him at the door with it, as
Reads the inscription on MARINA's monument
That woe is me to think upon thy woes
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have
Was it more precious to me than 'tis now:
It is no vicious blot, murder, or foulness,
Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks,
Or I shall show the cinders of my spirits
offend: only, have a care that your bills be not
Folly in fools bears not so strong a note
pains to thank me: if it had been painful, I would
Behold the wounds, the most unnatural wounds,
My master is awaked by great occasion
Hang, cur! hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!
Hark! a retire upon our Grecian part.
But that my noble master will appear
ACT III
To her desired Posthumus: gone she is
Well, I will thither.
Now Valentine is banish'd from her sight.
Yea, by mass, that it is.
How now, Patroclus!
Exit
Belong to Egypt: good now, play one scene
I know it;
I may not answer.
The wood of Birnam.
So help me every spirit sanctified,
The other down, unseen and full of water:
Go to the feast, revel and domineer,
beauties, let me sustain no scorn; I am very
To the great lord.
Let's see what they be: read them.
more; and, sweet my child, let them be men of good
SCENE VI. Another part of the field.
Teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born,
By my soul,
In troth, I think thou wouldst not.
John lays you plots; the times conspire with you;
I would prefer him to a better place.
The beauty of this sinful dame
Why, then, let kibes ensue.
Or rudely visit them in parts remote,
DON
Thoughts that would thick my blood.
but when he performs, astronomers foretell it; it
Let them obey that know not how to rule;
Cousin, a word; where is your husband?
That fear attends her not.
As we to keep this city.
kill him whom you have recovered, desire it not.
Of whom so often I have heard renown,
And then 'twill end.
And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner.
reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal
My good lord,
friend and I confess me knit to thy deserving with
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
Say it, Othello.
Whereof take you one quarter into France,
Perpetual durance?
Throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth,
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
That he should be so abject, base and poor,
That he did stay?
Go to; have your lath glued within your sheath
I hope, sir, you are; and I am yours.
Injurious wasps, to feed on such sweet honey
What, shall I find you here?
Tears the letter
Turk, to make eunuchs of.
'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart
For pilferings and most common trespasses
Either our history shall with full mouth
I will with all expedient duty see you:
One, her hairs were gold, crystal the other's eyes:
This cannot be,
Exit
Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
SCENE II. Bohemia. The palace of POLIXENES.
Are now each one the slaughter-man of twenty:
It is.
Whiles we shut the gates
Will hiss me to my grave: contempt and clamour
He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of
We did believe no less.
testimony in your complexion that it was a passion
Which she must dote on in extremity.
First to possess his books; for without them
O, if in black my lady's brows be deck'd,
himself possessed him, yet I'll speak to him.
A man worth any woman, overbuys me
And dash'd the brains out, had I so sworn as you
'Tis past, and so am I. But what art thou
Dumb jewels often in their silent kind
That will the king severely prosecute
Not when I saw't.
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
I stand accountant for as great a sin,
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
The open ear of youth doth always listen;
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams;
deserve more; a punishment too.
Well, do your discretion.
May favor Tamora, the Queen of Goths--
horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
Is second childishness and mere oblivion,
What, hoa! Got pless your house here!
knave is handsome, young, and hath all those
Caesar, I bring thee word,
With the best blood that I can meet withal
I forgive him.
What say you to his expertness in war?
I snatch'd one half out of the jaws of death,
He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
Than this pure soul shall be: all princely graces,
Do't, knight: I'll write thee a challenge: or I'll
My conscience bids me ask--wherefore you have
And if thou tell'st the heavy story right,
Not the world's mass of vanity could make me.
If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
A twelvemonth longer, let me entreat you to
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate
I do mistake my person all this while:
Hail to thee, noble master!
Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past:
themselves have provided that I shall have much help
You'll not confess, you'll not confess.
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
You did continue fault and that you slipp'd not
To weep that you live as ye do makes pity in your
It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee;
And did he search for you, and could not find you?
Master constable, you go not the way to examine:
My lord?
You should have ta'en the advantage of his choler
using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery:
Yes, py'r lady; if he has a quarter of your coat,
And then I'll presently attend you.
wedding-day at night.
And a good soldier too, lady.
Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go!
And shape to win grace though he had no wit.
certainty to be the king's daughter. Did you see
But floods of tears will drown my oratory,
A wonder, or a wondrous miracle,
Whether that thy youth and kind
Ay, but not mine own desire.
Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
man; any strange beast there makes a man:
Each one, tripping on his toe,
directly in love with him.
And daughters of the game.
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
O woman, if it were not for one trifling respect, I
Have you deliver'd to her our decree?
I know, they do attend us.
'Tis not enough to help the feeble up,
Nor this I have not, brother, so denied,
His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
Enter ERPINGHAM
My lord, she may be a punk; for many of them are
An't please your grace, here my commission stays,
It is qui, quae, quod: if you forget your 'quies,'
Uncertain favour!
Not my deserts, but what I will deserve:
Do you intend to stay with me tonight?
You tell us the manner of the wrestling.
That it was he in the times past which held you
shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore
You hear all these matters denied, gentlemen; you hear it.
I did look upon.
To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death;
Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
And I for Ganymede.
Nay, for a need, thus far come near my person:
Of this good day and of this gracious meeting,
This factious bandying of their favourites,
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
So happy be the issue, brother England,
To us in our election this day,
I am the unhappy subject of these quarrels.
That you to-day promised to tell me of?
Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,
That I may back to Athens by daylight,
On his fair worth and single chivalry.
That highly may advantage thee to hear:
When judges have been babes; great floods have flown
to bid any man stand, in the prince's name.
To make my master out of love with thee!
I know it pleaseth neither of us well.
I see a yielding in the looks of France;
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat;
In following this usurping Henry.
Well, you temporize with the hours. In the
Which buys admittance; oft it doth; yea, and makes
You shall have me assisting you in all.
to carry him to execution, and showed him a seeming
If wives do fall: say that they slack their duties,
Or at their chamber-door I'll beat the drum
What, of death too,
Even he that did uphold the very life
A stranger to those most imperial looks
And I, an ass, am onion-eyed: for shame,
Weigh them, it is as heavy; conjure with 'em,
Whether you had not sometime in your life
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
Exeunt
I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
Is very cunning in.
Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal:
Finely put on!
And you too, Somerset and Montague,
And those of true condition, that your subjects
And well am like to do; for, I perceive,
Never harm,
My temple stands in Ephesus: hie thee thither,
I was the next by birth and parentage;
'twere come to that!
[To TITUS]  Two of thy whelps, fell curs of
With that which we lovers entitle affected.
And, friends, disperse yourselves; but all remember
And straight is cold again.
Farewell, my lord: good wishes, praise and prayers
And I choose Clarence only for protector.
I must be patient:
Not that I fear to stay, but love to go
That can therein tax any private party?
And you degenerate, you ingrate revolts,
Civility not seen from other, valour
Well said, my noble Scot: if speaking truth
To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh
I come one way of the Plantagenets.
Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good
Are all thrown down, and that which here stands up
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
established against the rich, and provide more
Which chance to find us: O, my lord, my lord!
But I will beard him.
my hair; wore gloves in my cap; served the lust of
Enter a Carrier with a lantern in his hand
No.
As thou hast made me by my dear lord's death!
Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU
Enter TITUS, above
Or wilt thou sleep? we'll have thee to a couch
Even in his throat--unless it be the king--
Exit
But out of question 'tis Maria's hand.
and therefore tell me, most fair Katharine, will you
What says he?
Why do fond men expose themselves to battle,
By the dead and drowsy fire:
Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant;
And to the world and awkward casualties
Your absence only.
Which are the movers of a languishing death;
But, what follow'd?
Indeed, my lord,
which I will add
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
Are we turn'd Turks, and to ourselves do that
To BRABANTIO
Bending their expedition toward Philippi.
But in it shares some woe; though the main part
And not a serpent's poison. Say, our pleasure,
Enter Chamberlain
For poor'st diminutives, for doits; and let
particulars therein to a total.
Hath broke their hearts. March, noble lord,
whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
You are merry, my lord.
to the deanery, and dispatch it quickly. Go before
Anon, anon.
Beshrew his hand, I scarce could understand it.
Stay there, sir,
Do they still fly to the Roman?
That, sir, which I will not report after her.
Never, my lord.
And living too; for now his son is duke.
Forced me to seek delays for them and me.
Only this proof I'll of thy valour make,
Against whose fury and unmatched force
Take, O, take those lips away,
kissing of her batlet and the cow's dugs that her
That aged ears play truant at his tales
Do more than counterpoise a full third part
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
C'est bien dit, madame; il est fort bon Anglois.
the forest: he hath been a courtier, he swears.
In whose success we are gentle,--I beseech you,
Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
What tidings can you tell me of my lord?
Old Escanes, whom Helicanus late
Who can arraign me for't.
Wherefore hast thou accused him all this while?
Tut, holy Joan was his defensive guard.
have answered to his reputation with the duke and to
Have done, have done.
Brother, farewell: I will unto the king;
And, breathless, power breathe forth.
Can make good people. O, my lord, you're tardy:
To SILVIUS
A bachelor, a handsome stripling too:
Which of the peers
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
Albeit he comes on angry purpose now;
Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, WARWICK, MONTAGUE, CLARENCE, EXETER, and OXFORD
No, I'll come no more i' the basket. May I not go
To see you so attired, sworn, I think,
The which the gods protect thee from!--may
Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from
thoughts; wherein I confess me much guilty, to deny
Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.
[Within]  Nor to-day here you must not; come again
A proof of strength she could not publish more,
Return thee therefore with a flood of tears,
before day. An the Prince and Poins be not two
Cease, gentle queen, these execrations,
Why, how now, Adam! no greater heart in thee? Live
Why should you think that I should woo in scorn?
Hath much deform'd us, fashioning our humours
Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son,
Welcome, brave earl, into our territories:
Will purchase us a good opinion
Upon the pashed corses of the kings
Thou baleful messenger, out of my sight!
pray you, tell me if this be the lady of the house,
That any did. Had we pursued that life,
By this account then Margaret may win him;
Nor cease to be an arrogant controller,
Still better, and worse.
The lazy yawning drone. I this infer,
Which, hatch'd, would, as his kind, grow mischievous,
Good morrow, uncle Pandarus.
Are ministers of Fate: the elements,
It adds more sorrow to my want of joy:
Made you my guardians, my depositaries;
Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love;
Heaven hath through me restored the king to health.
you be so pashful? your shoes is not so good: 'tis
How now, friend Eros!
He that will give good words to thee will flatter
us our sins!--Gentlemen, let's look to our business.
O, 'tis treason!
therefore welcome: I myself would have no power;
That if they come to sojourn at my house,
Here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty,
good quarrel, and the law on my side.
For I am arm'd so strong in honesty
As soldiers can. Be cheerful; wipe thine eyes
[Advancing]  Dumain, thy love is far from charity.
[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
And blindfold death not let me see my son.
There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled
He has not with him.
Masters o' the people,
I might have said 'No part of it is mine;
How shall I best convey the ladder thither?
What mean'st by this?
To make an earthquake! sure, it was the roar
ta'en from me, and these detestable things put upon
Shall I come upon thee with an old saying, that was
Be certain, nothing truer; 'tis no jest
All dark and comfortless. Where's my son Edmund?
The servants of the duke, and my lieutenant.
Asmath,
SCENE II. London. The palace.
trimming; the other, that at dinner they should not
But even the mere necessities upon 't.
What, all my pretty chickens and their dam
Adieu, good queen; I must attend on Caesar.
'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.
To the succession of new days this month:
This ship-boy's semblance hath disguised me quite.
Thou sayest well, and it holds well too; for the
Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs,
Soft music
Exeunt
But she knows what she does.
To bear my lady's train, lest the base earth
Without a parallel; those being all my study,
And we will fear no poison, which attends
But that's no fault of his: we must receive him
And yet she takes exceptions at your person.
whipping, and hanging.
And she is fair too, is she not?
Was he a gentleman?
ACT I
Sir, I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind;
No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you, and
is so forward, and afoot too! I hate it.
Yet in this one thing let me blame your grace,
And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood
Tell you the lady what she is to do,
True; out indeed.
For nothing canst thou to damnation add
And every hour more competitors
[Aside]  His steel was in debt; it went o' the
Now, if you have a station in the file,
Thou show'st a noble vessel: what's thy name?
Master, you look'd so longly on the maid,
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
That she will light to listen to the lays,
will do, let her remain; but I'll never give o'er.
why, thou knowest I am as valiant as Hercules: but
More worthy this place than myself; to whom,
To which we all appeal.
Avoid the gallery.
And take unmingled that same drop again,
Welcome, pure wit! thou partest a fair fray.
Come, come, the cause: if arguing make us sweat,
Too like the sire for ever being good.
Indeed!
Go fetch it, sister.
Great: for mine own part, I know not the degree of
Then hear me speak in indifferently for all;
Ay, and what I do too: look thee, I'll but lean,
And that to-morrow you will bring it home.
Re-enter QUEEN
It follows in his thought that I am he.
No, by this heavenly light!
Unless another,
Nay, godded me, indeed. Their latest refuge
Yea, and forswore himself,--which Jesu pardon!--
I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.
Knocking within
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.
if you tickle us, do we not laugh? if you poison
More than light airs and recollected terms
your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wear
about him are under the line, they need no other
How ceremonious, solemn and unearthly
My lord, kneel down with me; Lavinia, kneel;
I know you'ld fain be gone. An officer!
How comes this gentle concord in the world,
Of merchant-marring rocks?
Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's
[To VINCENTIO]  Why, how now, gentleman! why, this
You shall have letters from me to my son
Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.
Exeunt ABHORSON and POMPEY
Whither travel you?
Item, Sauce,. . . 4d.
Never did base and rotten policy
Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm.
To name the bigger light, and how the less,
That she was false: O, she was heavenly true!
O, had the gods done so, I had not now
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
Than is her custom: it is still her use
But partly led to diet my revenge,
Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.
for tittles? titles; for thyself? me. Thus,
You maim'd the jurisdiction of all bishops.
They're busy within; you were best knock louder.
Sir, I say to you we are none.
To leave my Julia, shall I be forsworn;
Poor fellow, never joyed since the price of oats
With thine entirely.
Among nine bad if one be good,
The goodness of your intercepted packets
But, ere we go, regard this dying prince,
Let each man do his best: and here draw I
are in love or that you will be in love or that you
They call me Katharina that do talk of me.
The sudden breach on't.
Exeunt
one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a
Or a keeper with my freedom;
but the devil, and we shall know him by his horns.
Written to bear along.
Lay her a-hold, a-hold! set her two courses off to
Honest as either, to purge him of that humour
He is the half part of a blessed man,
Till thou have audience.
If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive.
bolder to chide you for yours.
None, I protest: but I'll give you a pottle of
Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
[Aside to CLARENCE]  You shall have four, if you'll
Poor boy! he smiles, methinks, as who should say,
No more but, plain and bluntly, 'To the king!'
Who wanteth food, and will not say he wants it,
I heard you say that you had rather refuse
Why does be ask him of me?
Which almost burst to belch it in the sea.
Playing the mouse in absence of the cat,
What, man! 'tis a night of revels: the gallants
With sounding Troilus. I will not go from Troy.
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
His rougher accents for malicious sounds,
You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus.
The Tomb of the ANDRONICI appearing; the Tribunes  and Senators aloft. Enter, below, from one side,  SATURNINUS and his Followers; and, from the other side, BASSIANUS and his Followers; with drum and colours
Enter below, multitudes, with halters about their necks
But be it as it may: I here entail
A father to me; and thou hast created
Enfranchisement immediate on his kn ees:
And set a precious crown upon thy head,
Hanging a golden stamp about their necks,
There's none but witches do inhabit here;
How sweetly you do minister to love,
Counsel, Lucetta; gentle girl, assist me;
neither to his father nor to me, to go about to make
To verify our title with their lives.
Some, how brief the life of man
and view the Frenchmen how they fortify:
The meat is cold because you come not home;
Good queen!
In favour's like the work we have in hand,
An 'twere to give again,--but 'tis no matter.
O ill-dispersing wind of misery!
As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
I thank you for your own. Now, gentlemen,
No, truly.
tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her
Most constantly.
all the care I had, I saw well chosen, ridden, and
Put off that gown, Trinculo; by this hand, I'll have
Whom thou, in terms so bloody and so dear,
Shall shine at full upon them. Some attend him.
Madam, good hope; his grace speaks cheerfully.
Terras Astraea reliquit:
To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards. Stand;
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
With whom yourself, myself and other lords,
PUBLIUS,  and c. lay hold on CHIRON and DEMETRIUS
Like a mad lad,
Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
Whether Bassanio had not once a love.
While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
For thou wast got i' the way of honesty.
O gentle lady, do not put me to't;
He hath some meaning in his mad attire:
sleep, and they may have their throats about them at
What, madam, are you there? the king and commonweal
DON
So proudly as if he disdain'd the ground.
Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind
O, 'tis brave wars!
Why, that's well said. What colour is my gown of?
Sleeping neglection doth betray to loss
How now, fellow!
What shall I need to draw my sword? the paper
A man no mightier than thyself or me
Of Alcibiades the approaches wild,
And yet me thinks I see it in thy face,
will give you as much as this old man does when the
That fed him with his prophecies?
And lift my soul to heaven. Lead on, o' God's name.
with love than I will get again with drinking, pick
That all the world shall--I will do such things,--
Now, mistress, profit you in what you read?
It most of all these reasons bindeth us,
'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey.
we be married.
In common worldly things, 'tis call'd ungrateful,
The seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
very pretty boy. O' my troth, I looked upon him o'
Doth this news hold of good King Edward's death?
Enter JULIET
were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as
With all my heart.
Most heartily I do beseech the court
Even in the bosom of our adversaries.
Uneath may she endure the flinty streets,
I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard,
and, God be thanked, well to live.
This cannot be Hector.
there's a hole made in your best coat, Master Ford.
Within these forty hours Surrey durst better
Without more overture.
Why, so I am, in mind; and that's enough.
That work for bread upon Athenian stalls,
Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,
More free from peril than the envious court?
Exeunt
Or shall we give the signal to our rage
Enter LYSANDER and HELENA
Before you had worn it out.
If there be faith in men, meant for his trial,
temperance.
Makes a pass at CASSIO
Nor never more in Russian habit wait.
Against the pope and count his friends my foes.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
I shaked you, sir, and cried: as mine eyes open'd,
ANTIPHOLUS
To the old dam, treason,--Charles the emperor,
Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard:
He that meets Hector issues from our choice
smiles not: I fear he will prove the weeping
Why did he so?
guard:--first, I must tell thee this--Desdemona is
that I were a man! What, bear her in hand until they
Are wolvish, bloody, starved and ravenous.
Welcome, my lord	how far off lies your power?
Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
If to reprove you for this suit of yours,
behavior vain, ridiculous, and thrasonical. He is
The unseen good old man.
How light and portable my pain seems now,
Unto a woman, happy but for me,
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
And be perform'd to-night: the solemn feast
If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony
Upon my power I may dismiss this court,
Caius Marcius Coriolanus!
But how did you desire it should be made?
To Attendants
That end upon them should be executed.
In you, which I account his beyond all talents,
If thou be merciful,
'Tis more than we deserve, or I expect.
I do assure ye, very good friend: for what is
'Tis but a peevish boy; yet he talks well;
You shall have pay and every thing you wish.
An if you do, you will but make it blush
Of her two branches, those sweet ornaments,
By our proceeding in hostility;
Mistress, 'respice finem,' respect your end; or
Further this act of grace: and from this hour
Shall I hear from you anon?
No, first let's reason with him.
I do not think a braver gentleman,
my sword like a great pin, ere thou and I part.
My leg is cut in two.
How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd,
But I will tarry; the fool will stay,
our pikes, ere we become rakes: for the gods know I
I and my bosom must debate awhile,
Nay, but who is it?
I'll stir them to it. Come, away, away!
To give their censure of these rare reports.
Patroclus is a fool positive.
I feel 't upon my bones.
The noble Imogen to repent, and struck
For such a guest is meet.
He shall unbolt the gates.
Thou art a soldier, therefore seldom rich;
parler. Comment appelez-vous la main en Anglois?
and, truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred.
Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the
alone again, I'll never wrestle for prize more: and
I'll give't him.
I'll hear you more, to the bottom of your story,
'Now take them up,' quoth he, 'if any list.'
The tedious day with sleep.
If thou and nature can so gently part,
payment into ploughs, I warrant you.
So is Alcides beaten by his page;
But I of these will wrest an alphabet
And a half, sir.
Whom the king hath in secrecy long married,
I know thou didst not, thou'rt not such a villain:
Have done me shame: brave soldier, pardon me,
And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
facility, and golden cadence of poesy, caret.
Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath,
If once they join in trial. Tell your nephew,
All scholars, lawyers, courtiers, gentlemen,
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs;
could not be else: I have drunk medicines. Poins!
I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleased to
To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast!
A wolf, nay, worse, a fellow all in buff;
Good morrow to you. Here the street is narrow:
Pucelle is enter'd into Orleans,
The greatest monarch now alive may glory
Commend me to thy lady.
Making practise on the times,
A beggar, brother?
And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn;
Re-enter LUCIUS
Remove these thoughts from you: the which before
unprovide my mind again: this night, Iago.
Exeunt
ANTIPHOLUS
But let us give him burial, as becomes;
is very well; what he has spoke to me, that is well,
I see you do not mean to part with her,
Yet livest thou, Salisbury? though thy speech doth fail,
against thee by poison, entrap thee by some
I go.
Fails in the promised largeness: cheques and disasters
PAROLLES.'
She dances featly.
'Zounds! who is there?
To hold in right and title of the female:
Let this be so;
That, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature
Had you a special warrant for the deed?
When man was wish'd to love his enemies!
This mutiny were better put in hazard,
And, being a winner, God give you good night!
reputation. Come, shall we to this gear?
If ever,--as that ever may be near,--
Fie, uncle Beaufort! I have heard you preach
You called me yesterday mountain-squire; but I will
The devil to his fellow and delight
Very ill.
What colour, madam! how shall I answer you?
This deity in my bosom: twenty consciences,
O jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible,
My silence and my cloudy melancholy,
You must not leave me yet: I must to bed;
Or like an idle thresher with a flail,
Your wisdom in the deed.
So please your majesty
Away,
Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
I cannot tell vat is dat: but it is tell-a me dat
We three, to hear it and end it between them.
Prithee, be not sad,
Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword,
merit, did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?
No, my good lord; I have sworn to stay with you:
I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he
It is decreed Hector the great must die.
She died at night; I'll say so. Who can cross it?
But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
Yours, Cinna; and, my valiant Casca, yours;
Why doth your highness look so pale and wan?
Take the boy to you: he so troubles me,
Now come, my Ariel! bring a corollary,
Your ignorant election; enforce his pride,
Most ponderous and substantial things!
Cold news for me, for I had hope of France,
Razed out my imprese, leaving me no sign,
Which seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay
How! my good name? or to report of you
To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
That any man turn ass,
stone; I strike it, and it hurts my hand. O, the
Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey
My lord?
speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man
bed, and dream on the event. Farewell.
clovest thy crown i' the middle, and gavest away
No matter:--wear them, betray with them: whore still;
way to the everlasting bonfire.
As they have often given. Here is Ulysses;
With all the spots o' the world tax'd and debosh'd;
Help, help, O, help!
If you do say we think him over-proud
woman's heart; and, I warrant you, they could never
Near or far off, well won is still well shot,
Paris is dirt to him; and, I warrant, Helen, to
There's little can be said in 't; 'tis against the
Enter WARWICK, CLARENCE, OXFORD, SOMERSET, and French soldiers, silent all
Doth he still rage?
Sir Toby Belch! how now, Sir Toby Belch!
The accuser and the accused freely speak:
I did but tell her she mistook her frets,
Alas, the tender boy, in passion moved,
'Twere better for you if it were known in counsel:
Arthur of Bretagne, yield thee to my hand;
I turn my glass and give my scene such growing
And what was first but fear what might be done,
All France will be replete with mirth and joy,
Coming and going with thy honey breath.
SCENE V. London. The palace.
Thou art not honest; and the gods will plague thee,
Now the wasted brands do glow,
Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree
Why he, a harmless necessary cat;
May be my friends. He's dead; I am only sorry
And make my image but an alehouse sign.
And bestial appetite in change of lust;
Why take we hands, then?
He'll call you to so hot an answer of it,
Eight thousand and four hundred; of the which,
To shame the zeal of my petition to thee
If that thy gentry, Britain, go before
Than our earth's wonder, more than earth divine.
Of what should stead her most?
Enter LUCIUS with an army of Goths, with drum and colours
Do! why: what else?
DON
'scape hanging for killing that rogue. I have
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
May cement their divisions and bind up
Who even but now did spurn me with his foot,
As to o'er-walk a current roaring loud
Such things as might offend the weakest spleen
gardez ma vie, et je vous donnerai deux cents ecus.
Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest;
Voice, gait and action of a gentlewoman:
Exeunt
Let 's away;
Speak, Iachimo: I had you down and might
Ah, who is nigh? come to me, friend or foe,
a sovereign's sovereign to ride on; and for the
False; we have given thee faces.
That will I do.
vill cut his ears.
that puts the world into her person and so gives me
Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace,
As I learn'd,
Was the first man that leap'd; cried, 'Hell is empty
But, for all this, thou shalt have as many dolours
Enter KING HENRY VIII and SUFFOLK
Will't please your highness walk?
That bear a weighty and a serious brow,
That here and there his fury had committed.
And I'll say nothing.
Now, sir, to you, that were so hot at sea,
Whom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak,
Enter SALISBURY
My recompense is thanks, that's all;
And nothing can or shall content my soul
Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
To loves mistook, and so be mock'd withal
knits her brows.
Here in my scabbard, meditating that
Therefore away with us to Killingworth.
ACT II
Our best friends made, our means stretch'd
Must he needs die?
My fortunes to your service, which are here
As thou'rt a man,
Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
And startled, when he look'd upon the Tower,
Within this mile and half.
own imperfection: but, good Sir John, as you have
Enter ISABELLA and MARIANA
Enter HECTOR
And mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns,
Ay, sir, when he goes before me.
Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know
Exit
Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue, not
But do you remember? 'Madam, why laugh you at such
Might I a son and daughter now have look'd on,
'lady, lady, lady.'
They cast their caps up and carouse together
I will be jovial: come, come; I am a king,
Thy medicine on my lips; and let this kiss
Turning mortal for thy love.
And let my liver rather heat with wine
May haply purchase him a box o' th' ear;
cried 'Have patience, good people!'
Silver I there it goes, Silver!
not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made
Drinks
Your belly's answer? What!
thou been this month?
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
Mine honour into lust, to take away
in your ward sufficient to serve it?
To you I speak.
He was a bachelor then.
Bloody thou art, bloody will be thy end;
To help him of his blindness,
This sword shall prove he's honour's enemy.
Well, well: but, for mine own part, as I have set
Exit
The king is now in progress towards Saint Alban's,
Cold-hearted toward me?
And so ingrateful, you deny me that.
Go thou to Richmond, and good fortune guide thee!
Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
My lord, most villanously; believe it.
Demanding of King Henry's life and death,
May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
niece is already in the belief that he's mad: we
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
These cardinals trifle with me: I abhor
Tut, this was nothing but an argument
And the compact is firm and true in me.
Would better fit his chamber than this shadow.
Wednesday half an hour together: has such a
Then, on the other side, I cheque'd my friends.
Giving him a chain from her neck
At the next word: no more of 'worthy lord!'
Call here my varlet; I'll unarm again:
And merely to revenge him on the emperor
They could not find a heart within the beast.
The time approaches
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Amen.
It would have madded me: what shall I do
Should ask, if Katharina should be his wife,
cuckold's horns. Master Brook, thou shalt know I
Fare thee well, nymph: ere he do leave this grove,
Is, that she will to virtuous Desdemona
Exit
Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.
Why, how now, lords! your wrathful weapons drawn
You have said you will not grant us any thing;
And he did render him the most unnatural
the web and the pin, squints the eye, and makes the
And told me I had turn'd the wrong side out:
How wildly then walks my estate in France!
In love whereof, half Hector stays at home;
Be thus when thou art dead, and I will kill thee,
As far as I see, all the good our English
Full of wise saws and modern instances;
Ay:
prove fools; and I, that am sure I lack thee, may
Is crept into the palace of our king.
Ay, good brother, or go about to think.
Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman?
O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt
Do not I know you for a favourer
Why, did you take her in green?
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
Your grace,
And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight.
Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern'd,
[Aside]  What's here?
O, welcome, father!
And greedily devour the treacherous bait:
Immediately they will again be here
That churchman bears a bounteous mind indeed,
O, cry you mercy, sir, I have mistook:
I'll tell tree, Hubert, half my power this night,
That like a football you do spurn me thus?
Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.
As will not leave their tinct.
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
I will not sup to-night.
Have I train'd up: those arts they have as I
But what of Cicero? shall we sound him?
By thy approach thou makest me most unhappy.
Golden quoifs and stomachers,
Sheriff, farewell, and better than I fare,
I part you. The falcon as the tercel, for all the
dog's death. Answer not; I am gone.
that kills my heart.
This was no damsel, neither, sir; she was a virgin.
To whom I am a neighbour and near bred.
Sit, gods, upon your thrones, and smile at Troy!
To my keen curses; for without my wrong
And bear him to the rock.
How often he had met you, sword to sword;
All my reports go with the modest truth;
With that same weak wind which enkindled it.
Enter Provost and a Servant
I did not kill your husband.
Enter EUPHRONIUS, ambassador from MARK ANTONY
Unto the king be by, and then his state
Yielded the town: he is retired to Antium.
No, by my soul, she was not,
Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance
We term it 'mulier:' which 'mulier' I divine
We are too open here to argue this;
Go to, sir: tell me, do you know Madam Silvia?
Upon her gentle bosom, and fill up
He would not seem to know me.
How you delight, my lords, I know not, I;
I mean, she is brought a-bed.
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt,
Metheglin, wort, and malmsey: well run, dice!
O murderous coxcomb! what should such a fool
All at one cast? to set so rich a main
I pray thee, gentle keeper, stay by me;
'Tis almost night: you shall have better cheer
'Tis full three months since I did see him last;
Say, that the last I spoke was 'Antony,'
Cried fame and honour on him. What's the matter?
If I could temporize with my affection,
For 'tis a studied, not a present thought,
Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt,
hath been since an ape-bearer; then a
Exeunt, severally, GLOUCESTER and BISHOP OF WINCHESTER with their Serving-men
An indistinct regard.
Where died she?
If he should stay at home to-day for fear.
sign of dolour to another, she did, with an 'Alas,'
that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
Acquaint the queen of your most noble offer;
she is sport for Jove.
O ye immortal gods!
Doth Arthur live? O, haste thee to the peers,
damned than to do't?
Princes, that strive by factions and by friends
O, teach me how I should forget to think.
His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
I do demand,
you, hostess: he is very sick, and would to bed.
from's time,
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
I am that flower,--
treachers, by spherical predominance; drunkards,
What stay had I but Edward? and he's gone.
And pluck my magic garment from me. So:
Which I must needs call mine: thou art a boil,
Why to a public count I might not go,
This is not altogether fool, my lord.
I have tumbled past the throw; and in his praise
That all the travellers do fear so much.
At Holmedon met,
I quote it in your jerkin.
We dare not move the question of our place,
Be it so she; will not here before your grace
I will from henceforth rather be myself,
My honoured lord!
Were in wild hurry. Here do we make his friends
Can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave,
[To HOLOFERNES]  Monsieur, are you not lettered?
majesty is take out of the helmet of Alencon.
Decline your head: this kiss, if it durst speak,
Hark! you are call'd: some say the Genius so
When neither are alive.
That prosperously I have attempted and
True! I'll be sworn they are true.
Since I must lose the use of all deceit?
Be calm, be calm.
I'll frush it and unlock the rivets all,
Exeunt
What, have you met with her?
Should not be able to encounter mine.
To wrong my friend, I shall be much forsworn;
The numbers of our host and make discovery
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
That, like the sun, did make beholders wink?
because his own are out, let him be judge how deep I
To tremble under Titus' threatening looks.
Will you be patient? will you stay awhile?
I'll put myself in poor and mean attire
That did the latest service to my master.
The hearts of princes kiss obedience,
Which then will speak, that you must
Hath he deserved to lose his birthright thus?
Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
Cheer'd up the drooping army; and himself,
Who undertakes you to your end.
Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?
That wrings mine eyes to't.
the women: but, for my part, she is my kinswoman; I
In dangerous wars, whilst you securely slept;
Is his complexion; and faster than his tongue
We turn not back the silks upon the merchant,
Exit LONGAVILLE
O beauty! where is thy faith?
Dead, then?
That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
Pray to the gods to intermit the plague
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
I am thy sovereign.
It is noised he hath a mass of treasure.
One heart, one bed, two bosoms and one troth.
To the people; not by your own instruction,
Travelling some journey, to repose him here.
Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls,
And not so much to feed on as delight;
His forward voice now is to speak well of his
Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.
To give up willingly that noble title
mean: superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but
Philemon, ho!
LOVELL seems to stay
Enter KING RICHARD III, marching, with drums and trumpets
O, now be gone; more light and light it grows.
That nothing can allay, nothing but blood,
But how, but how? give me particulars.
letter, being so excellently ignorant, will breed no
In what vile part of this anatomy
villain: she fetches her breath as short as a
Your greatest want is, you want much of meat.
twenty, take them all; I'll answer the coinage. Bid
Sirrah, leave us to ourselves: we must confer.
wooing. Neighbour, this is a gift very grateful, I am
Look, sir, your mother!
Till I have told this slander of his blood,
think, to liberty: yet am I better
That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how
On the fair Cressid.
Princes,
But these are all lies: men have died from time to
Where is the fellow?
You shall, my lord.
And change your favours too; so shall your loves
ACT IV
Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
Thou'rt my good youth, my page;
deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.
The French have reinforced their scatter'd men:
I now am full resolved to take a wife
When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
Some heavenly music, which even now I do,
The sin of my ingratitude even now
Let him go up into the public chair;
The honourable father to my foe
ANTIPHOLUS
Yes, I beseech your grace: I am not yet well breathed.
desire is boundless and the act a slave to limit.
And oftentimes have purposed to forbid
Come, we'll have you merry: I'll bring you where
Call forth Bagot.
Enter the BASTARD and PETER of Pomfret
Why tough senior? why tough senior?
The Great.
We offer fair; take it advisedly.
Exit Soothsayer
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
We met here both to thank and to remember
Seven hundred pounds and possibilities is goot gifts.
powers of the kingdom approach apace.
We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
No, but brown.
I am to find you thus: I have been to seek you.
And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot;
I have received much honour by your presence,
No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there
Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.
Is pleased you shall to the Tower, till you know
Exeunt ANTONY and TREBONIUS
Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest
Good morrow, gallants! want ye corn for bread?
To fight on Edward's party for the crown;
There rest.
see if I can eat grass, or pick a sallet another
Into two parties, is now conjoined in one,
Soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods.
Our arms, in strength of malice, and our hearts
How now, spirit! whither wander you?
And here my naked breast; within, a heart
That scolds against the quality of flesh,
A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
Throws a stone at him
Many a man his life hath sold
Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself,
Persuade my heart to this false perjury?
Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue
I could not sleep.
Honour hath no skill in surgery, then? no. What is
No, sir, it does not please me.
Why, he that wears her like a medal, hanging
To spend upon his haters. If thou please
With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;
Nor age so eat up my invention,
Beat me!
never tire.
And Nero will be tainted with remorse,
Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity
With grief that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
Give me thy hand.
To change the course: he's full of alteration
Patience, good Katharina, and Baptista too.
Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus!
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Ay, madam.
When by the Archbishop of Canterbury
Have waked their sleepers, oped, and let 'em forth
herself wittingly.
Saw'st thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland?
Henry of Lancaster, resign thy crown.
But when in other habits you are seen,
Servile to all the skyey influences,
The Apparitions vanish
Ha, you gods! why this? what this, you gods? Why, this
The Viscount Rochford,--one of her highness' women.
What may befall him, to his harm and ours:
Come from the farthest Steppe of India?
While I stand fooling here, his Jack o' the clock.
Are they returned to the court?
Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.
What is't to me, when you yourselves are cause,
not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not
These griefs and losses have so bated me,
ourselves to an unknown fear.
And they it were that ravished our sister:
You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor.
Prince Bassianus, leave to plead my deeds:
Let him appear that's come from Antony.
Our debts, our careful wives,
That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
Enter two Servants of Varro, and the Servant of  LUCIUS, meeting TITUS, HORTENSIUS, and other Servants of TIMON's creditors, waiting his coming out
ANTIPHOLUS
Or that the resolute acting of your blood
I pray you, pardon me; I cannot speak.
Thou dost belie him, Percy, thou dost belie him;
A very drudge of nature's, have subdued me
That faith would live again by death of need.
And dizzy 'tis, to cast one's eyes so low!
For me, most wretched, to perform the like.
Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise thee
Our prisoners with the sword. But since the gods
Men daily find it. Get thee away, and take
Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother,
And bids thee christen it with thy dagger's point.
Thou art too wild, too rude and bold of voice;
And majesty might never yet endure
For which the youthful lover now is gone
the name of good by his government. How far is his
Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
No, no, he is dead:
Yet neither conqueror nor conquered:
If you were born to honour, show it now;
O, good! convey? conveyers are you all,
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
But that's no argument for kissing now;
halfpenny loaves sold for a penny: the three-hooped
To you alone.
Yet know, my lord, I was provoked by him;
Invites the King of England's stay at home;
And awful rule and right supremacy;
As you are now, for you are cold and stem;
I will not kiss thee; then the rot returns
Certainly, aunchient, it is not a thing to rejoice
Gloucester,
Is there no other way of mercy,
his dole! They can tell you how things go better
And he to England shall along with you:
Retiring
To signify that rebels there are up
Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
Something about, a little from the right,
Flourish. Re-enter GLOUCESTER, with KING OF FRANCE, BURGUNDY, and Attendants
Ay, and in a brooch of lead.
lecherous. Tut, I should have been that I am,
Why, how now, Ajax! wherefore do you thus? How now,
A year before: it is not to be question'd
She that you gaze on so as she sits at supper?
High dukes, great princes, barons, lords and knights,
The least whereof would quell a lover's hope,
No other obligation! By my life,
that had received so much shame, you might begin an
A torch for me: let wantons light of heart
Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich,
If I would yield him my virginity,
that shall drive some of them to a non-come: only
By a beloved prince, there doth appear
And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen;
The king should keep his word in loving us;
Did to his majesty, his mother and his lady
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
True, madam: and, to comfort you with chance,
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
You think of other place. The ambassador,
O, he smiles valiantly.
I have perused her well;
What, Brutus!
the soil, the land, the earth.
A' could never abide carnation; 'twas a colour he
Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere;
For you, the city, thus I turn my back:
And mock the deep-mouth'd thunder: for at hand,
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
Well, I do so.
No, not so much as 'Take this for thy pains.' To
Make large confusion; and, thy fury spent,
Exit
On any plot of ground in Christendom.
this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
Which was embounded in this beauteous clay,
you shall go; so shall you, Master Page; and you, Sir Hugh.
Did not you speak?
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.
shines bright and never changes, but keeps his
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
My cousin Vernon, welcome, by my soul.
To win the Moor--were't to renounce his baptism,
Exeunt all but ALBANY and EDGAR
O Jew! an upright judge, a learned judge!
He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister: for
I do engage my life.
Let this be granted, and Achilles' horse
When it doth tax itself; as these black masks
Enter Chorus
Be it so, Titus, and gramercy too.
Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
But he does buy my injuries, to be friends;
Exeunt some Servants
the victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just
May give his saying deed; which is no further
Ho! Noble captain, come.
The more and less came in with cap and knee;
To yield thee so much profit. Let not conscience,
To show us so much gentry and good will
Must first induce you to believe: whose strength
Put bars between the owners and their rights!
I am never merry when I hear sweet music.
place thee, I will.
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward.
Defect of manners, want of government,
Than my poor life must answer.
Was I then to you!
I had rather to adopt a child than get it.
Wherefore I sent for you.
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon,
Whiles that his mountain sire, on mountain standing,
Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt
Fie, fie, fie!
To wait, said I? to wanton with this queen,
Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor,
I' the commonwealth I would by contraries
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
How he did shake: 'tis true, this god did shake;
I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus,
I, by the honour of my marriage-bed,
of it. A prize! a prize!
SCENE II. Before the walls of Athens.
By the imprisoning of unruly wind
ACT II
is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double
And made a preachment of your high descent?
During this song they pinch FALSTAFF. DOCTOR CAIUS  comes one way, and steals away a boy in green;  SLENDER another way, and takes off a boy in white;  and FENTON comes and steals away ANN PAGE.  A noise of hunting is heard within. All the  Fairies run away. FALSTAFF pulls off his buck's head, and rises
In faith, I will go.
I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
A horse whereon the governor doth ride,
You know me well; I am he.
Let us not leave till all our own be won.
As loath to lose him, not your father's death;
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Shouting their emulation.
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
that have the voice of lions and the act of hares,
No jewel is like Rosalind.
Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave,
Stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet.
Exeunt
Ay, such a place there is, where we did hunt--
'Tis done.
I fear, too early: for my mind misgives
Sweet father, cease your tears; for, at your grief,
To sour your happiness, I must report
Tends to God's glory and my country's weal.
Was't so?
That's for advantage.
That nature works, and of her cures; which doth give me
I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands
You met him half in heaven: my vows and prayers
And in thy sight to die, what were it else
Fair princess, welcome to the court of Navarre.
Enter IMOGEN and PISANIO
Go with me to clothe you as becomes you.
Exit SALISBURY
I am changed: I'll go sell all my land.
Wear this for me, one out of suits with fortune,
all the records of the realm: my mouth shall be
Madam, the king is old enough himself
My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul,
The handkerchief!
Dare mate a sounder man than Surrey can be,
What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
[Aside]  No; but he fled forward still, toward your face.
Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I?
Why, there you touch'd the life of our design:
Gives her fame which never dies.
Light on the man! Come hither, gentle mistress:
thee. Come, neighbour Mugs, we'll call up the
He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:
We sent unto the Temple, unto his chamber;
My dukedom since you have given me again,
The what?
My sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed:
Would I perform, if I might have my will;
No, faith, is't not, Kate: but thy speaking of my
O, wonderful!
Where art thou, keeper? give me a cup of wine.
drink, and fear not your man.
I am in the favour of Margaret, the waiting
Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
And so farewell: I would not have my father
Or we'll burst them open, if that you come not quickly.
That most desired the match; but not a courtier,
There take an inventory of all I have,
Find what thou want'st by free and offer'd light. Come.
That charge their breath against us? say, scout, say.
Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
Look you, I'll go pray.
Because they have been still mine enemies:
But as we, under heaven, are supreme head,
roaring of a lion's whelp.
And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.
indeed and sung lamentably.
Gods, gods! 'tis strange that from their cold'st neglect
Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her.
By gar, me vill kill de priest; for he speak for a
No cause, no cause.
Thou canst not say I did it: never shake
An ancient angel coming down the hill,
Well, what then? what then?
eyes! By so much the more shall I to-morrow be at
Is this your speeding? nay, then, good night our part!
down the prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.
which, peradventure not marked or not laughed at,
In memory of her when she is dead,
Prithee, unpin me,--have grace and favour in them.
The traitor speak, and timorously confess
For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
good fire. But, sure, he is the prince of the
over, the trompet sound the retreat. By my hand, I
I pity you.
great eater of beef and I believe that does harm to my wit.
I said before, that which is the strength of their
To beat me out of Egypt; my messenger
Give us a prince of blood, a son of Priam,
The lamb will never cease to follow him.
That Somerset be sent as regent thither:
Who shall take notice of thee: I'll move the king
On him, his sons, his favourites and his friends.
ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our
ANTONIO: Let me yet know of you whither you are bound.
I follow him to serve my turn upon him:
We please to have it grow. Cheque thy contempt:
You wrong me every way; you wrong me, Brutus;
that he hath devoted and given up himself to the
thing, as boys and women are for the most part
The poor remainder of Andronici
Who, cherish'd in your breasts, will sting
Enter Haberdasher
Have you laid fair the bed? Is all things well,
That is, not bestow my youngest daughter
Upon this warrant shall you have access
There is no lady of more softer bowels,
I'll keep you company. Will you along?
Enter DON JOHN and BORACHIO
my brother; whose loss of his most precious queen
From which even here I slip my weary neck,
But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who's there?
How many inches doth fill up one mile.
For a light wife doth make a heavy husband,
To second all his plot. I do assure you
And how by this their child shall be advanced,
You have received many wounds for your country.
prave man.
An host of tongues; but let ill tidings tell
Then, in our measure do but vouchsafe one change.
And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
But that the poor monster's in drink: an abominable monster!
Your father's head, which Clifford placed there;
That is enough to satisfy the senate.
And your supply, which you have wish'd so long,
Amen, amen! Mount, chevaliers! to arms!
following. Now, sir, for the manner,--it is the
She is importunate, indeed distract:
thefts were too open; his filching was like an
My heart hath one poor string to stay it by,
Seyton, send out. Doctor, the thanes fly from me.
As Nature was in making graces dear
War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it,
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.
Give sentence on this execrable wretch,
'Tis, then, because thou dost not keep a dog,
And though he came our enemy, remember
Her part, poor soul! seeming as burdened
But when he took a beggar to his bed,
I humbly thank your highness;
In spring time,  and c.
What, comes the general to speak with me?
How it goes with us, and do look to know
For so he calls me: now I feed myself
Peace your tattlings! What is 'fair,' William?
Edward the Third, my lords, had seven sons:
We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
They are loves I bear to you.
And great Troy shrieking.
We may as bootless spend our vain command
Come hither, Mariana.
Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!
And now am I, unhappy messenger,
The air will drink the sap. To every county
Untent his person and share the air with us?
So methinks:
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
Knock,
Thou rather shalt enforce it with thy smile
me; in requital whereof, henceforth carry your
I' the part that is at mercy? Five times, Marcius,
Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost,
out of my house yesterday in this basket: why may
yourself: many likelihoods informed me of this
How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown;
As thou art knight, never to disobey
A most miraculous work in this good king;
Enter Constable, ORLEANS, BOURBON, DAUPHIN, and RAMBURES
Or butchers killing flies.
Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.
Re-enter Provost, with BARNARDINE, CLAUDIO muffled, and JULIET
'I am conqueror of myself.' Thou art sworn, Eros,
Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love,
Patch'd with foul moles and eye-offending marks,
Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.
Up to some scaffold, there to lose their heads?
When they go from Achilles: shall the proud lord
Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your
of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are;
Dear sovereign, hear me speak.
Enter PINDARUS
Blessing on your heart for't!
I do beseech you, pardon me; I may not show it.
I fly, Biondello: but they may chance to need thee
And thrift is blessing, if men steal it not.
The other moiety, ere you ask, is given;
years? Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and
The business we have talk'd of.
'Stuprum. Chiron. Demetrius.'
My Lord of Winchester, I know your mind;
You understand me, sir: so shall you stay
I had rather walk here, I thank you. I bruised
Then enterprise is sick! How could communities,
My mother was the daughter of a king;
Thou art not holy to belie me so;
Deliver'd by a friend that came from him.
Doomsday is near; die all, die merrily.
What an ass art thou! I understand thee not.
Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
Who ambles Time withal?
sings when he touches it; the basest horn of his
Come, come, 'tis only I that must disgrace thee.
Enter KING JOHN, ARTHUR, and HUBERT
Should hold up high in brass, and such again
Richard!
woman leads an ill life with him: he's a very
One dowle that's in my plume: my fellow-ministers
In this dull world, which in thy absence is
And charge that no man should disturb your rest
man: and then to 'scape drowning thrice, and to be
[Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
No, holy father; throw away that thought;
On my free will. My lord, Mark Antony,
--send him by your two men to Datchet-mead.
I did full hard forbear him. But, I pray you, sir,
Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death;
Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton,
would scarcely allay.
Well, what would you say?
These quarrels must be quietly debated.
O, that his fault should make a knave of thee,
Hath any honour, but honour for those honours
What is unsettled in the king.
Cannot be seen or heard: do but look up.
Alarum. Enter YORK
discourse, my lord.
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it
In riddles and affairs of death;
Send for money, knight: if thou hast her not i'
The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen,
To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
Bid them home:
The standing of his body.
And this fell tempest shall not cease to rage
That the proportion both of thanks and payment
Sir, he is within; and I would I could do a good
It should the good ship so have swallow'd and
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap:
More direful hap betide that hated wretch,
Since I am put to know that your own science
Ay, the grinding; but you must tarry
I will seek them out.
policy; I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways:
Enter GLOUCESTER
Yours in the ranks of death.
He is simply the most active gentleman of France.
When you have said 'she's goodly,' come between
guest-cavaleire?
I will with you, if you be so contented,
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
A hundred almshouses right well supplied;
I saw him not these many years, and yet
Those centuries to our aid: the rest will serve
Enter VARRIUS
What, wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard?
Sir, that's to-morrow.
He cares not; he'll obey conditions.
Why, so didst thou: come they of noble family?
A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has
Will not you?
CASSIO: Good night, honest Iago.
Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise,
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
Had I more name for badness.
Of direst cruelty! make thick my blood;
they are slanders; sixth and lastly, they have
Trow'st thou that e'er I'll look upon the world,
'em. I'll scratch your heads: you must be seeing
And rather than it shall, I will be free
Did, as a prophet, weep what it foresaw
slower; and, as I say, retire with me to my
And now, sweet emperor, be blithe again,
To punish me for what you make me do.
For being preferred so well.
Of all our fortunes.
God for his mercy, what treachery is here!
It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.
By all the battles wherein we have fought,
Till she had kindled France and all the world,
talk you of young Master Launcelot?
And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
and wine and metheglins, and to drinkings and
looking out at the window.
For if the French be lords of this loud day,
God pardon them that are the cause of it!
I am glad on 't: then we shall ha' means to vent
none but good house-holders, yeoman's sons; inquire
A vulgar comment will be made of it,
Who? thy lord? that is my lord, Leonatus!
He shent our messengers; and we lay by
Have been deceived; they swore you did.
Go, ye giddy goose.
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
Come when the king doth to my lady come;
Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.
Release my brother; and, after much debatement,
With his new bride and England's dear-bought queen,
The dogs did yell: put L to sore, then sorel jumps
I am perplex'd, and know not what to say.
What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
Fe, fe, fe, fe! ma foi, il fait fort chaud. Je
Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters!
Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand.
Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither;
Most bounteous sir,
occasion; that sall I, marry.
Truly deliver.
His antidotes are poison, and he slays
With Charles, Alencon and that traitorous rout.
you.
Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
To who shall find them.
Northumberland, say thus the king returns:
impudent, embossed rascal, if there were anything in
That give accosting welcome ere it comes,
To praise his faith which I would have dispraised.
extravagancy. But I perceive in you so excellent a
That for a toy, a thing of no regard,
Who wouldst thou strike?
Have taken treasure from her lips--
Hearing of this.
be once heard and thrice beaten. God save you, captain.
Your eyes do menace me: why look you pale?
How can these contrarieties agree?
lord, if you will give me leave, I will tread this
I humbly do desire your grace of pardon:
Be brave, then; for your captain is brave, and vows
Another hit; what say you?
Makes both my body pine and soul to languish,
Why, so it would have done at the same season, if
Then pardon me for reprehending thee,
The worships of their name. O most small fault,
You have not been a-bed, then?
In my whole course of wooing, thou criedst 'Indeed!'
When will you go?
Hector was but a Troyan in respect of this.
Exeunt
have threaten'd
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
A hot friend cooling: ever note, Lucilius,
world before he was sent for, yet was his mother
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
What do you mean by this haunting of me?
him: he asked me of what parentage I was; I told
For your fair sakes have we neglected time,
O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray,
For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.
May hang no longer on me: throw my heart
Enter GLOUCESTER
Heard you confess you had the chain of him
How! traitor!
To hopeless restitution, so he might
If e'er thou stand at mercy of my sword,
Enter the Lord Marshal and the DUKE OF AUMERLE
is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am
You know me dutiful; therefore, dear sir,
Call not me slanderer; thou and thine usurp
Ay.
And grumbling York: and not the least of these
Adieu, uncle.
They needs must show themselves; which
Ay, now am I in Arden; the more fool I; when I was
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Because I love him I must pity him.
The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
Is as a whisper in the ears of death,
But when they seldom come, they wish'd for come,
Whatever I shall happen to devise.
It is; and all the rest are countesses.
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
Is not to reason of the deed, but do it.
That will not be denied your highness presence:
Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin,
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder;
Claudio be executed by four of the clock; and in the
Sir,
But pity her.
O God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?
Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur.
Fie, there is no such man; it is impossible.
Is this your promise? go to, hold your tongue.
way.
Give me the daggers: the sleeping and the dead
Do with your injuries as seems you best,
I am one of those; his mother, wife, his child,
Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
Poor gentlewoman! my master wrongs her much.
But let the famish'd flesh slide from the bone,
What, quite unmann'd in folly?
That nothing but himself which looks like man
With hidden help and vantage, or that with both
that he comes not along with her.
What, worse than nought? nay, then, a shame take all!
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
First Serving-Man	It is the noble Duke of Gloucester.
Our strength is all gone into heaviness,
The unknown Ajax.
Kind keepers of my weak decaying age,
my wish hath a preferment in 't.
Behind the ditches of the abbey here.
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Je te prie, m'enseignez: il faut que j'apprenne a
Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?
But this most cruel usage of your queen,
One only daughter have I, no kin else,
Enter SEMPRONIUS, and a Servant of TIMON's
And in that habit, when Slender sees his time
Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
Two of both kinds make up four.
Ever love Caesar so?
May you stead me? will you pleasure me? shall I
What's the quarrel?
Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown.
Deliver'd weeping.
Arrested him at York, and brought him forward,
In such a righteous fashion as I do,
When subtle Greeks surprised King Priam's Troy,
Exeunt
Now, Eros.
To bring this tidings to the bloody king.
You know my mind, I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy.
Well, to the rest:
I would I had your bond, for I perceive
Whose party do the townsmen yet admit?
They shall abound as formerly.
A rhyme I learn'd even now
With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
She hath prevented me. Here, Signior Tranio.
which they trick up with new-tuned oaths: and what
Although they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
Well, and how?
Well, that's set down.
To overcome him: in that beastly fury
With such loud reason to the Cyprus wars,
This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!
but looked big and spit at him, he'ld have run.
Who, looking for adventures in the world,
Pardon me, Julius! Here wast thou bay'd, brave hart;
And doubting lest that he had err'd or sinn'd,
And, in the end being rescued, I have seen
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
Which would have been as speedy in your end
Vex not his ghost: O, let him pass! he hates him much
Stabs him
On either hand thee there are squadrons pitch'd,
For, had the passions of thy heart burst out,
When vantage like a pair of twins appear'd,
a many merry men with him; and there they live like
By us, a pair of kings. Let's from this place.
Good Bardolph, put thy face between his sheets, and
Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a
ANTIPHOLUS
these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not: I will not
Hath, for a few light crowns, lightly conspired,
What sayest thou?
Who for this seven years hath esteem'd him
'Go to thou art made, if thou desirest to be so;'--
Death and damnation! O!
A bribe to pay my sword: I do refuse it;
And swear with me, as, with the woful fere
She it is.
what they travail for, if it be a just true report
Give me your hand first. Fare you well, my lord.
Dissentious numbers pestering streets than see
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
his service; you may tell every finger I have with
For heaven sake, Hubert, let me not be bound!
And lasting in her sad remembrance.
To strike at me, upon his misconstruction;
No sooner justice had with valour arm'd
Shall I not lie in publishing a truth?
scurvy, lousy knave, God pless you!
Re-enter SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, and GONZALO
cheerful look, a pleasing eye and a most noble
A proper stripling and an amorous!
Ay, madam, with his eyes in flood with laughter:
Thou canst not speak too much; I have deserved
And 'tis my hope to end successfully.
To the death, my lord.
You are assembled: and my speech entreats
How comes it now, my husband, O, how comes it,
I am always bound to you.
But I will wed thee in another key,
I pray you, think you question with the Jew:
I'ld throw it down for your deliverance
But were we burdened with like weight of pain,
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
I am thinking what I shall say I have provided for
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, and Forces, with scaling-ladders, their drums beating a dead march
Poictiers and Anjou, these five provinces,
And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss,
masters! fly, masters! Help!
Of stern injustice and confused wrong.
We will speak further.
is not a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?
Benedictus! why Benedictus? you have some moral in
I heard a child cry underneath a wall.
For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl:
I life would wish, and that I might
The name of king? o' God's name, let it go:
Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears,
Antonio shall become bound; well.
But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines
been Anne Page, would I might never stir!--and 'tis
Now, my sweet guardian! Hark, a word with you.
That I have worn so many winters out,
Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.
Exeunt
There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
Which therein works a miracle in nature,
Your breath first kindled the dead coal of wars
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio
Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray.
Be cast from possibility of all.
Though doubts did ever sleep.
Brings in the champion Honour on my part,
Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made,
Mine were the very cipher of a function,
'Tis midnight; I'll go arm myself.
What part is that, my lord?
Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract
Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath;
How much in duty I am bound to both.
I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would
I would thou grew'st unto the shores o' the haven,
Take but good note, and you shall see in him.
Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
Nay, do so; for, indeed, I have lost command,
as a drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearless
I have heard!
Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.
Are journeying to salute the emperor
the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of
Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.
From thence unto the place of execution:
let me have Claudio's head sent me by five. Let
Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire!
Madam, we will attend your grace.
And thou shalt tell the process of their death.
ANTIPHOLUS
Grant me the combat, gracious sovereign.
I beg the ancient privilege of Athens,
Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil,
To bury so much gold under a tree,
Enter, go in; the market bell is rung.
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
Why sigh'st thou without breaking?
To young Octavius of the state of things.
Ho, ho, ho! Coward, why comest thou not?
When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men
And know it now: the senate have concluded
As dangerous as the rest. Your time's expired:
Our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city,
Even so. What are you?
The spoons will be the bigger, sir. There is a
How eagerly ye follow my disgraces,
Nay, Master Page, be not impatient.
Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not
tyrant: I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to
Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.
From another one?
Send danger from the east unto the west,
Achilles! a drayman, a porter, a very camel.
We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with him.
Offering money
'Tis sure enough, an you knew how.
Invest me in my motley; give me leave
Implore her, in my voice, that she make friends
be a list of an English kersey as be piled, as thou
Nor from the state nor private friends, hereafter
Topas, do not think I am mad: they have laid me
Ay, so I thought. How many, as you guess?
Fortune and Antony part here; even here
'Sblood! an arrant traitor as any is in the
SONG.
Enter SOMERSET, with drum and colours
This your request
Your pardon, sir; for this
If you are bound to us or no. What say you?
And yet salt water blinds them not so much
Even he.
I heard thee say even now, thou likedst not that,
That made great Jove to humble him to her hand.
See, how the pangs of death do make him grin!
Or blessed was't we did?
The jealous o'erworn widow and herself,
But, if thou be a king, where is thy crown?
Exit
Here, youth, there is my purse; I give thee this
O, the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us!
And almost broke my heart with extreme laughter:
It is a life that I have desired: I will thrive.
His weary joints would gladly rise, I know;
In heaps and piles of ruin.
In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
Engaging and redeeming of himself
Groan so in perpetuity than be cured
But tidings to the contrary
I have spoke long: be pleased yourself to say
Thanks, good sir:
Sirrah, give place.
Pray heaven it be state-matters, as you think,
leave me: stall this in your bosom; and I thank you
she can knit him a stock?
That Edward is escaped from your brother,
into a notable contempt. If you will see it, follow
This must be answer'd either here or hence.
Is not the Lady Constance in this troop?
As he regards his aged father's life.
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
ACT III
Wherefore! Why, doth not every earthly thing
That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
Not like a guest; so you shall pay your fees
The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk,
Wherein you see me smear'd; if any fear
Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,
The Christian prince, King Henry, were he here.
Exit Murderer
And of the Cannibals that each other eat,
Mistress Ford, by my troth, you are very well met:
Most kind messenger,
on thee, I am a very villain. Come, and be hanged!
Exeunt
That you will clear yourself from all suspect:
He purposed to his wife's sole son--a widow
[Aside]  Glamis, and thane of Cawdor!
Set we our squadrons on yond side o' the hill,
I pray you, be not angry with me, madam,
To call for recompense. Appear it to your mind
Pray, sir, in what?
By any mark of favour.
solemn talk.
Wretched shall France be only in my name.
Peruse this paper, madam.
If we may pass, we will; if we be hinder'd,
And I for no woman.
DON
Quail to remember--Give me leave; I faint.
O heavens!
Most certain, sir.
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
Give me some light: away!
Himself best knows: but strangely-visited people,
To join with men in scorning your poor friend?
My lord?
slighted me into the river with as little remorse as
How do you, sir? Stand you not so amazed:
you shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll
And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit!
Because the king, forsooth, will have it so.
His figure and his heat.  I was much wrapt in this;
Warwick, what are thy news? and yours, fair queen?
and the old ornament of his cheek hath already
you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
Nay, come, agree whose hand shall go along,
When time is old and hath forgot itself,
Music still, with shouts
Personates thee: and thy lopp'd branches point
Than all the island kings,--disarm great Hector.
What is the business?
another. This making Christians will raise the
Enter SIR ANDREW, SIR TOBY BELCH, and FABIAN
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
O, go to. Well, well,
Some five or six and thirty of his knights,
'tis not good that children should know any
Your honour is most welcome.
CLARENCE sleeps
You are too hard for me.
And with my hand at midnight held your head,
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest;
That still I lay upon my mother's head,
I was, fair madam.
Guarded with grandsires, babies and old women,
That time best fits the work we have in hand.
They found him dead and cast into the streets,
I am, and by my fancy: if my reason
for I never saw her: I would be loath to cast away
The citizens of Corioli have issued,
Then belike my children shall have no names:
With senators on the bench: this is it
Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted
That ends this strange eventful history,
cost, and you encounter it.
Revenge it on him,--for I know thou darest,
uses to seal: 'tis my lady. To whom should this be?
Mark Antony I served, who best was worthy
I so much thirst to see.
Now is the winter of our discontent
'Tis a good piece.
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath:
To the people! Coriolanus, patience!
if she be fair, 'tis the better for her; an she be
For I am bold to counsel you in this.
Of that victorious stock; and let us fear
Spare for no faggots, let there be enow:
To-night we hold a solemn supper sir,
ear-kissing arguments?
all things: I will tell you, asse my friend,
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
the fifth, if I.
I married them; and their stol'n marriage-day
looked for at your hand, and this was balked: the
A woman, naturally born to fears;
And curse that justice did it.
Prince of Wales, as I have read in the chronicles,
Exit MISTRESS FORD
I must confess to you, sir, I am no fighter: I am
His leg is but so so; and yet 'tis well:
And, waving our red weapons o'er our heads,
Knowing I loved my books, he furnish'd me
SONG.
I wish some ravenous wolf had eaten thee!
Friend and companion in the front of war,
Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box,
Receive it from me, then: war and confusion
During the wars of York and Lancaster
hither. If thou be'st valiant,-- as, they say, base
O, he sends you for a picture.
I shower a welcome on ye; welcome all.
More fresh in Julia's with a constant eye?
work?--A likely piece of work, that you should find
I most fehemently desire you you will also look that
I knew it for my bond.
Why, Warwick, who should do the duke to death?
Stand all aloof: but, uncle, draw you near,
This comfort with the like! But I have words
Sleek-headed men and such as sleep o' nights:
Why, then let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away.
Hortensio, peace! thou know'st not gold's effect:
And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
In single opposition, hand to hand,
should he do here?
This queen will live: nature awakes; a warmth
Exeunt
grace, by the world, sometime to lean upon my poor
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
If this be known to you and your allowance,
In dreadful trial of our kingdom's king!
And in the duke's behalf I'll give my voice,
My gracious sovereign, on the western coast
An if my face were but as fair as yours,
Flourish. Exeunt all but YORK, WARWICK, EXETER and VERNON
O Pandarus! I tell thee, Pandarus,--
Exit FABIAN
Upon our soldiers, we will retire to Calais.
As TROILUS is going out, enter, from the other side, PANDARUS
To these ill-tuned repetitions.
Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg: but thou dost breathe;
Enter LADY CAPULET
Exit
You say he dined at home; the goldsmith here
Upon the foot of fear, fled with the rest;
Against the blown rose may they stop their nose
You came not of one mother then, it seems.
You may;
To any lady that subdues a lord.
As Lewis himself: so, nobles, shall you all,
Exeunt SALARINO and SALANIO
Which, I presume, he'll take in gentle part.
Fair lady,--
To run upon the sharp wind of the north,
Come, thou gentle day!
I will run no base humour: here, take the
O, that's as much as you would be denied
That you have bid us ask his liberty;
Peace, fool: he's not thy kinsman.
And once dispatch'd him in an embassy
vile that will not love his country? If any, speak;
[Within]  A pox o' your throats! Who makes that
But what of this?
I will not touch a bit.
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
Dues! Whence are you?
Her times of preservation, which perforce
If this right hand would buy two hour's life,
Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms.
May think anon it moves.
That you take with unthankfulness, his doing:
More strange than true: I never may believe
You do but lose your labour.
And give you entrance: but without this match,
Orsino! I have heard my father name him:
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
But that Achilles, were his brain as barren
Enter NORFOLK, SUFFOLK, SURREY, and Chamberlain
all.
Now, sir, you speak of two
That is, were I under the terms of death,
and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to: but
Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are.
And for your grace; and you, my noble lords.
I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
ducks i' the river: go to, go to.
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts!
Are shuffled off with such uncurrent pay:
world! One that is well-nigh worn to pieces with
With every gale and vary of their masters,
'Tis that they seek, and they in seeking that
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
And helper to a husband. But, O strange men!
Have with you to see this monster.
SCENE III. A highway between Rome and Antium.
Enter WARWICK and OXFORD, with French soldiers
There's no hope she will return. I'll swear
She shall undo her credit with the Moor.
[To OTHELLO]  What, in your own part, can you say to this?
The one almost as infinite as all,
Friend, you! pray you, a word: do not you follow
it wants matter to prevent so gross o'erreaching as
And begin, 'Why to me?'
Or else you famish; that's a threefold death.
For thee! ay, who art thou? he hath stayed for a
here she comes.
My lord, methinks, is very long in talk.
In a true hate, to pray they have their will:
excel thee in my rapier as much as thou didst me in
Than this; which to reiterate were sin
Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.
Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none:
Exit POLONIUS
merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your
Your eyes, half out, weep out at Pandar's fall;
To have the touches dearest prized.
mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good
Thou little valiant, great in villany!
Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not.
To save at least the heir of Edward's right:
In buckram?
Sir, Mark Antony
As, I confess, it is my nature's plague
Silence!
For since the birth of Cain, the first male child,
Exit
Neither regarding that she is my child
Put forth their sons to seek preferment out:
me, and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous,
Go to; you are not, Cassius.
Here I disclaim all my paternal care,
CURIO and Attendants retire
My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets.
Your griefs! for what? wrong not your prince you love.
How comes it then that thou art call'd a king,
And, having both together heaved it up,
That he, unknown to me, should be in debt.
thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but
Farewell: if heart's presages be not vain,
The devil fiddle 'em! I am glad they are going,
Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips,
Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool
To live and burn in everlasting fire,
Enter BIANCA
My suit, as I do understand, you know,
Forsooth, I have forgot.
For your expenses and sufficient charge,
Upon the maidenhead of our affairs.
Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?
If you turn not, you will return the sooner.
And things unlucky charge my fantasy:
Whose face I never saw?
Our English troops retire, I cannot stay them:
A maid, and stuffed! there's goodly catching of cold.
Too fairly, Hubert, for so foul effect:
As plain as I see you now.
If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,
Your mind from feasting. Sooth, when I was young
wooing of a peascod instead of her, from whom I took
Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended
New joy wait on you! Here our play has ending.
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and THOMAS MOWBRAY
Why do you make us love your goodly gifts,
To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us,
Have said and writ so, but your writing now
Well, do not then; for since you love me not,
O, I am fortune's fool!
no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the
Let him alone;
I think, by this he is.
And open perils surest answered.
Exit Provost
I hold as little counsel with weak fear
As we were sickly prey: their shadows seem
Ratcliff!
My villain!
there's no purchase in money. O, thou art a
How ill agrees it with your gravity
Come hither, fellow.
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
'Zounds, ye fat paunch, an ye call me coward, by the
Give me the light: upon thy life, I charge thee,
Not for the world: why, man, she is mine own,
And so are like to do.
But, so it is, it is not. Was this taken
Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen would
service, look you, sir, he bid me knock him and rap
it.
Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae:
I know it well, sir, lo, here is the chain.
Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,
But is there no quick recreation granted?
Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind;
Do him that kindness, and take leave of him.
No prophet will I trust, if she prove false.
and by my friends, I am abused: so that,
of us, I pray!
Which makes her both the heart and place
'Shall Rome,  and c.' Thus must I piece it out:
As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
Did worthily perform; and I must use you
Before I would have yielded to this league.
Which pierces so that it assaults
Caesar's no merchant, to make prize with you
And what of him, Tranio?
Now, lords, for France; the enterprise whereof
There lies your love.
You cannot show me.
With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
Do you see nothing there?
But since my landing I have understood
Yes, bring me word, boy, if thy lord look well,
parishioners; for their sons are well tutored by
I do well believe you.
For she is lumpish, heavy, melancholy,
that am a butcher.
Or what is now received: I witness to
And, being a woman, I will not be slack
cares of it, and the forms of it, and the sobriety
Wouldst have me kneel? first let me ask of these,
Is thicker than a cuckold's horn,--or heard,--
That my most jealous and too doubtful soul
Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers,
Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
In the affliction of these terrible dreams
Your highness to assign our trial day.
Draw, you rascal: you come with letters against the
Exeunt all but CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER and Legate
Has Page any brains? hath he any eyes? hath he any
Exeunt
There's gold for thee.
That do corrupt my air, I banish you;
For learning me your language!
Are we not beaten? Is not Angiers lost?
Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
Thy hand hath murder'd him: I had a mighty cause
O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee hence!
enough than for us to undergo any difficulty imposed.
A moiety of that mass of moan to come.
Would she had never given you leave to come!
but the ten meals I have lost, and I'll defy them
This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
The bishop will be overborne by thee:
Hath seized the wasteful king. O, what pity is it
Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.
Upon a courser, whose delightful steps
We will descend and fold him in our arms.
Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH, with SIR ANDREW
Is fresh about me.
I am the greatest, able to do least,
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
Yes, madam.
Bring him with triumph home unto his house.
Or lose our ventures.
and will not--
Ay me, detested! how am I beguiled!
That two such noble peers as ye should jar!
Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
Thou shalt aby it.
but from proof as strong as my grief and as certain
Eight hundred five. Besides, their writers say,
gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
Enter the Lord Mayor and CATESBY
Of excellent witchcraft, who of force must know
O, ominous! he comes to kill my heart.
How does he love me?
Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens
Knows not my feeble key of untuned cares?
privily relieve him: go you and maintain talk with
Your maidenheads growing: O Proserpina,
I would there were no age between sixteen and
Enter PERICLES, at one door, with all his train;  CLEON and DIONYZA, at the other. CLEON shows  PERICLES the tomb; whereat PERICLES makes  lamentation, puts on sackcloth, and in a mighty passion departs. Then exeunt CLEON and DIONYZA
That all the treasons for these eighteen years
All health unto my gracious sovereign!
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
Here.
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
That will not suffer you to square yourselves,
Catesby, we come. Lords, will you go with us?
Why, sir, that is as fit as can be to serve for
Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,
SCENE I. On a ship at sea: a tempestuous noise
A million more, now lost,--she, Eros, has
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
You have made me offer
Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate.
subject's duty is the king's; but every subject's
And I will do so.
And so am I for Ganymede.
Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
Caesar, I shall.
shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry,
Then fiery expedition be my wing,
'Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral;
And not my brother.
Thy heart is big, get thee apart and weep.
Ay, who doubts that? a will! a wicked will:
Who's there, besides foul weather?
That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
[Beating him]  You whoreson cur!
this huge hill of flesh,--
Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on
The clogging burthen of a guilty soul.
Crook-knee'd, and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls;
To taste the fruit of yon celestial tree,
Received deep scars in France and Normandy?
Master, this prisoner freely give I thee;
Then let me stay; and, father, do you fly:
And let me have them very well perfumed
For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible
Herald shews him another paper
And they have been grand-jury-men since before Noah
And likewise will visit thee with mine.
Be sprightly, for you fall 'mongst friends.
ACT III
adieu: these foolish drops do something drown my
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
Subdue and poison this young maid's affections?
Then let not him be slander'd with revolt.
Close by, my master.
All causes shall give way: I am in blood
cannot hale them together. For Andrew, if he were
The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer;
How now! is he dead?
To see't mine eyes are blasted.
then? Saint Denis be my speed!--donc votre est
Believe not all; or, if you must believe,
Of the none-sparing war? and is it I
In your behalf still will I wear the same.
You speedy helpers, that are substitutes
Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
him a present! give him a halter: I am famished in
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,
Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams.
But you, Sir Thurio, are not sharp enough;
And henceforward all things shall be in common.
Nay, an I tell you that, Ill ne'er look you i' the
furnish him, nothing doubting your present
'Twould put me to my slipper: but I feel not
Now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound,
come something nearer.
Send for your daughter by your servant here:
There's two or three of us have seen strange sights.
Beloved sons, be yours: which to confirm,
Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripped.
have had thee than thus to want thee: thou, having
Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
Though they themselves did suffer by't, behold
I tell thee, constable, my mistress wears his own hair.
Sirrah, come hither: make no more ado,
May we not see him?
I have been consul, and can show for Rome
I do desire the like.
No, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness
Knights of the garter were of noble birth,
That palter with us in a double sense;
Sings
Nay, we shall heat you thoroughly anon.
am king of England, I shall command all the good
Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now:
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
To keep his bed of blackness unlaid ope,
Exit with the child
it too; or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders.
innocence, which seems much, to justify him, but a
Ay, my good son.
The trick of that voice I do well remember:
Withdraw yourselves.
Which, as it seems, make thee.
SCENE I. Bristol. Before the castle.
Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin;
love no man in good earnest; nor no further in sport
I do repent me that I put it to you.
No doubt, my lord.
What money, sir?
Sought to be king o'er her.
and I a sheep?
Upon my head?
You thief of love! what, have you come by night
To hear the rest untold: sir, lead's the way.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
To view the field in safety and dispose
The fringed curtains of thine eye advance
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
for true, that he's so full of gold?
But lest my liking might too sudden seem,
Well I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd:
Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,
But your petition
And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
Which they would have the profferer construe 'ay.'
I had been still a happy king of men.
If her liquor be good, she shall: if she will not, I
But by my ruin.
Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Many, nay, almost any.
Thou sheer, immaculate and silver fountain,
Of Jaques Falconbridge, solemnized
And he to yours, and all of you to God's!
I am slain by a fair cruel maid.
Did you assay him?
Myself the while to draw the Moor apart,
Which shall be needful for your entertainment.
But is this Hector?
The people will remain uncertain whilst
Thou hast spoke too much already: get thee gone.
In Helicanus may you well descry
Prithee, Kate, let's stand aside and see the end of
And thus I search it with a sovereign kiss.
Hear me, Beatrice,--
That dost in vile misprision shackle up
Enter AJAX and THERSITES
Was ever king so grieved for subjects' woe?
Do breed unnatural troubles: infected minds
It is not you I call for:
But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
No, that's certain; I am not a double man: but if I
Exit TYRREL
Is with a mighty power landed at Milford,
Love doth to her eyes repair,
In the great hand of God I stand; and thence
One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
And if he were, he came into the world
A plague upon your epileptic visage!
Which way they went.
It was a vision fair and fortunate:
'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the
This fawning greyhound then did proffer me!
Like graves i' the holy churchyard.
Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipped
DON
And Helena of Athens look thou find:
These hairs, which thou dost ravish from my chin,
His fellowship i' the cause against your city,
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
Remorse from power: and, to speak truth of Caesar,
Fie, fie upon thee, strumpet!
He never did encounter with Glendower:
The other must be held the worthier.
The spirit of the time shall teach me speed.
serviteur; excusez-moi, je vous supplie, mon
Exeunt
Away, you rogue!
Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair,
Re-enter DUKE VINCENTIO
grows bald by nature.
And what impossibility would slay
She conjures: away with her! Would she had never
well as a man in his case may do: has here writ a
Ne'er heard I of a warlike enterprise
Enter DUKE
Exeunt LEONATO and ANTONIO
Here were a fairy.
Some, of violated vows
Is far beyond a prince's delicates,
To make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips
'Lack, to what end?
I have done my duty.
threw this whale, with so many tuns of oil in his
Have with thee, my girl.
O, thou art wise; 'tis certain.
Hath blown that vice in me: I must repent.
John de la Car, my chaplain, a choice hour
Commit myself, my person and the cause.
We'll crave a parley, to confer with him.
A man at least, for less I should not be;
What, old acquaintance! could not all this flesh
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
I did say so,
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?
Enter PORTIA and LUCIUS
Much less in blood than virtue, yet a princess
Forswear not thyself, sweet youth, for I am not
In your despite, upon your purse? Revenge it.
Isidore's Servant	It is so.
If none appear to prove upon thy head
Since I am crept in favour with myself,
The imperial Caesar, should again unite
To extol what it hath done.
Say on: an if it please me which thou speak'st
Canst thou not guess wherefore she plies thee thus?
We will not fail.
My lord, I do protest--
Your mind is tossing on the ocean;
Thee thither in a whirlwind. If thou wilt,
Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
And let them work. The nature of our people,
Exeunt
Poor breathing orators of miseries!
And here I will expect thy coming.
Now presently I'll give her father notice
Prays, and destroys the prayer; no midway
Well, if we had of every nation a traveller, we
You must no more.
Come, say your prayers.
A trial, come.
And in thy face strange motions have appear'd,
plucked yet, I can assure you.
I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart
In hollow bones of man; strike their sharp shins,
O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low.
I would learn that; for, by the
of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to
gently considered, I'll bring you where he is
He still hath held them; that to's power he would
With mutual cunning, 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;
Exeunt Attendants
Proclaim him in the streets; incense her kinsmen,
Whom I affect; but she is nice and coy
you seem to be? Can you think to blow out the
Once, sir? there was nothing done to her once.
A gory emulation 'twixt us twain:
craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.
On pure heart's love to greet the tender princes.
The very elements of this warlike isle,
Of general assault.
O treacherous villains!
with you; you shall have some part of your will: I
Why, here begins his morning story right;
tying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thou
And the rich East to boot.
Or, if he were not privy to those faults,
Crave leave to view these ladies and entreat
being great-bellied, and longing, as I said, for
Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
because I have railed so long against marriage: but
And Phibbus' car
Bids thee, with most divine integrity,
My lord, your son was gone before I came.
Of mine own way; I know you wise, religious;
Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all:
Consider what you first did swear unto,
Assemble all the poor men of your sort;
To this fair island and the territories,
He's sentenced; no more hearing.
Nothing, madam.
ACT III
Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
That it becomes a virtue.
One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods
And our indentures tripartite are drawn;
Art thou a messenger, or come of pleasure?
gentlemen flock to him every day, and fleet the time
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
What he will do: but if he will not yield,
Be villany less than 'twas! O Imogen!
sold many laces.
I do; and will fetch off Bohemia for't;
For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
His ready sense; then straight his doubled spirit
humours since the old days of goodman Adam to the
Let not light see my black and deep desires:
stand him but a little, he will throw a figure in
Nor to her bed no homage do I owe
I am bound to you:
And I.
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
Persuade me to the murder of your lordship;
I am attended at the cypress grove: I pray you--
Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!
Well, we may meet again.
Nay, that follows not.
And smooth my way upon their headless necks;
put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver.
Go you down that way towards the Capitol;
I have no power to speak, sir.
That you create your emperor's eldest son,
Throwing the water in their faces
He hath a garden circummured with brick,
you lack not folly to commit them, and have ability
Do not stand upon't.
Purge all infection from our air whilst you
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
The unaccustom'd terror of this night,
The Ghosts vanish
With instruments upon them, fit to open
Be known unto us: are you all agreed, lords?
It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
For your own ladies and pale-visaged maids
Ay, that the king is dead.
Were harbour'd in their rude circumference.
Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes:
Whilst I remember
[Within]  Right, sir; I'll tell you when, an you tell
They say so most that most his humours know.
Enter COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators; JUNIUS BRUTUS and SICINIUS VELUTUS
Their fruits of duty: superfluous branches
Made hard with hourly falsehood--falsehood, as
does lend articles?
For what his eyes eat only.
To give me hearing what I shall reply.
lest he knock that about yours.
Wherein this trunk was framed, and in her hand
believe all that they say, shall never be saved by
Look, here comes one: a gentlewoman of mine,
The fragments, scraps, the bits and greasy relics
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
Exit HASTINGS
He hath hereto prized them at.
Than Cleopatra; nor the queen of Ptolemy
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
I'll halt after.
And I, to sound the depth of this knavery.
One of my fellows had the speed of him,
By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
Becomes not Rome, nor has Coriolanus
backward: I am sure he had more hair of his tail
That apprehends no further than this world,
Madam, good night; I humbly thank your ladyship.
head; nay, prithee, be covered. How old are you, friend?
Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
Delivers in such apt and gracious words
And say I am Revenge, sent from below
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
Some surety for a safe return again,
Come, come, Lord Mortimer; you are as slow
I would they were, that I might die at once;
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
A noble spirit!
through and through; my sword hacked like a
And take my milk for gall, you murdering ministers,
Who by thy wisdom makest a prince thy servant,
accusative, hung, hang, hog.
To that I'll speak, to that I'll sigh and weep:
The young Dumain, a well-accomplished youth,
Put up your sword. If this young gentleman
And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
But, they do square, that all their elves for fear
In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft,
As I will lend you cause, my doing well
Whence comest thou? what wouldst thou? thy name?
Come hither, come! come, come, and take a queen
That we are here.
And every man hence to his idle bed;
And kiss'd it, madam.
My chastity's the jewel of our house,
Good sir, say whether you'll answer me or no:
He waged me with his countenance, as if
And mine; but it grows something stale with me.
The truth of this appear. Prepare you, lords;
Than by the tiger; but when the splitting wind
Sit fas aut nefas, till I find the stream
In such a time as this it is not meet
Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.
He's traitor to the height.
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
The law, with all his might to enforce it on,
Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
For I will throw my glove to Death himself,
That floated with thee on the fatal raft?
wooing, nor her sudden consenting; but say with me,
Enter SILVIA, VALENTINE, THURIO, and SPEED
How often hast thou waited at my cup,
To show the world I am a gentleman.
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
You bade me ban, and will you bid me leave?
Utter my thoughts? Why, say they are vile and false;
More free from motion, no, not Death himself
You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself:
That you depart and lay no hands on me
I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
That horse that thou so often hast bestrid,
That to our sister you do make return;
Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!
I must have done no less with wit and safety.
And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
What music is this?
Until you see her die again; for then
He flatly says he'll not lay down his arms.
The peace between the French and us not values
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
The danger to itself?
Another's issue.
O dearest soul! your cause doth strike my heart
Marry, sir, they have committed false report;
[Aside]  Eat it up all, Hortensio, if thou lovest me.
May live at peace. He shall conceal it
The gates shut on me, and turn'd weeping out,
Shall I put him into the basket again?
way home again.
Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away.
[Awaking]  Yes, sir, to Milford-Haven; which is
Knocking within
Know'st thou this paper?
Exeunt
Ay, my lord,
And take the present horror from the time,
To the forfended place?
To have him suddenly convey'd away.
And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
Prithee, who is't that thou meanest?
She was a wight, if ever such wight were,--
Thee o'er to harshness: her eyes are fierce; but thine
But stand against us like an enemy.
Sick at the heart.
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
'No, sir,' says question, 'I, sweet sir, at yours:'
Enter LEONTES, Lords, and Officers
Methinks a father
Allow not nature more than nature needs,
drunk to-day.
I have advertised him by secret means
Captain Macmorris, when there is more better
that I might see.
My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love:
But like a man he died.
How long is't now since last yourself and I
But that I do not.
As venom toads, or lizards' dreadful stings.
But, Warwick,
A noble earl and many a creature else
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
War with good counsel, set the world at nought;
Grace to stand, and virtue go;
Nothing, my lord: or if--I know not what.
Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so.
Of stern commandment. But whate'er you are
The world hath noted, and your name is great
If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
This expedition's charge.
No matter, since
Spoke by a holy monk; 'that oft,' says he,
PARIS passes
Can be retentive to the strength of spirit;
I have brought you a letter and a couple of pigeons here.
has no more pity in him than a dog: a Jew would have
By gar, 'tis no the fashion of France; it is not
Keep leets and law-days and in session sit
SCENE IV. A room in ANGELO's house.
Lucius, all hail, Rome's gracious governor!
For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart.
'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father
This is a gentle provost: seldom when
Enough then for your wonder. But, come on,
The gentleman is learn'd, and a most rare speaker;
Not her own sinews. To end a tale of length,
Are in the field: a mighty strength they carry.
Since I have ever follow'd thee with hate,
For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.
This news hath made thee a most ugly man.
O young and noble Cato, art thou down?
Yes, good sooth: to, Achilles! to, Ajax! to!
No, I thank you, forsooth, heartily; I am very well.
Of the extreme verge: for all beneath the moon
I ask, that I might waken reverence,
Exeunt
Let me a little show it, even in this;
And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.
Five tribunes to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
Good madam, keep yourself within yourself:
Now, master doctor, have you brought those drugs?
Who wither'd in her spring of year.
Doubt not, sir;
All by the name of dogs: the valued file
More worth than any man; men, that she is
Madam!
Exeunt Oxford and Somerset, guarded
Full of comparisons and wounding flouts,
Yet seek my father's love; still seek it, sir:
house to put his head in? such may rail against
She had the wrong. But what said Henry's queen?
My stay, my guide and lantern to my feet:
My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
Sir Robert might have eat his part in me
Came on my guard; and at thy tent is now
But let it be. Bring me to Antony.
Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance,
To the PRINCESS
Than faults may shake our frames,--let me be bold;
What now, Lucilius! is Cassius near?
Your oath I will not trust; but go with speed
I beseech you, what manner of man is he?
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
What she says I'll confirm: we'll fight it out.
Shall seize this prey out of his father's hands.
That I may see my shadow as I pass.
And clamour moisten'd: then away she started
Each syllable that breath made up between them.
What, up and down, carved like an apple-tart?
Say not so, Agrippa:
Hush, my gentle neighbours!
Exeunt Clown, FABIAN, SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
To bear him to my bower in fairy land.
What, upon compulsion? 'Zounds, an I were at the
I do beseech you, take it not amiss;
kindnesses I am most infinitely tied. Reflect upon
From the murderer's gibbet throw
Rise up a knight.
will fit any question.
Warrants these words in princely courtesy.
this man made you, sir?
If I get down, and do not break my limbs,
My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
Rising
That faultless may condemn a nobleman!
It is an honour that I dream not of.
Nor his?
O world, thy slippery turns! Friends now fast sworn,
And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,
and I rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it
Though he be blunt, I know him passing wise;
My latter part of life.
O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
As one come not within another's way.
To see him every hour; to sit and draw
And to make us no better thought of, a little help
Re-enter Gaoler, with EMILIA
In glittering golden characters express
Thy hopeful service perish too: good Cromwell,
There weep and leave it crying; and, for the babe
Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet
I like not fair terms and a villain's mind.
No, indeed, did she not: here have I brought him
But I will lift the down-trod Mortimer
this very instant disaster of his setting i' the
Amen.
And Duke of Buckingham; now, poor Edward Bohun:
Unto an enemy of craft and vantage,
By which he did ascend. So Caesar may.
Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly.
Is come on shore: the Moor himself at sea,
A vestal livery will I take me to,
Was, for that--young King Richard thus removed,
And thrice again, to make up nine.
But do not look for further recompense
I call'd thee then vain flourish of my fortune;
Then, venom, to thy work.
With our discourse to make your grace to smile.
And they'll seem glorious.
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
Faints
And that this body, consecrate to thee,
Believe 't, I will.
And never mount to trouble you again.
Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just
It will be laid to us, whose providence
I would have been a breakfast to the beast,
it quite, friar, till eating and drinking be put
I would not be a queen.
[Aside]  Well, I perceive
With some more ducats, and be with you straight.
That she is dead. Nurses are not the fates,
Good gentlemen, let me have leave to speak:
But for some other reasons, my grave sir,
Your wife, my lord; your true
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage;
The man's undone forever; for if Hector break not his
Save mine, which hath desired to see thee more;
So vile a thing as Caesar! But, O grief,
And by their vehement instigation,
That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.
This cell's my court: here have I few attendants
Under whose shade the ramping lion slept,
Save that Euriphile must be Fidele.
Modo he's call'd, and Mahu.
As doth the raven o'er the infected house,
To find out you. Who's that? Metellus Cimber?
And did avoid a puttock.
No, sir.
My Lord of York will still be cross in talk:
ACT III
Know them from eyes of other mortals?
So is the dear'st o' the loss.
For Richard, in the view of many lords,
Kisses her
I lie; for they pray continually to their saint, the
Harry, how fares your uncle?
And all the fertile land within that bound,
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,
This is the pearl that pleased your empress' eye,
But send me Flavius first.
And kiss me, Kate, we will be married o'Sunday.
Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
be souls must be saved, and there be souls must not be saved.
And yet not so; since, I am sure, my love's
With full as many signs of deadly hate,
Come, we are fellows and friends: he was ever too
The rather, if you could devise it so
Nay, good, sweet husband! Good gentlemen, let him
your messenger came, in loving visitation was with
Whiles yet the dew's on ground, gather those flowers;
O, sir, to such as boasting show their scars
Enter MARK ANTONY with Attendants
In our heart's table; heart too capable
She is fair; and so is Julia that I love--
is, she shall be ploughed.
And presently, I prithee.
Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
By adding a tongue which I know will not lie.
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
But yet I would your father had been here.
He's very likely now to fall from him,
Because your lordship was proclaimed traitor.
We shall proceed with Angelo.
you'll undertake her no more?
Because you are not merry: and 'twere as easy
To one that can my part in him advertise;
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
ACT I
Tell her thou madest away her uncle Clarence,
Nay, heaven doth know.
I am as mad as he,
Longing for what it had not; nay, the dust
Basta; content thee, for I have it full.
She may, Lord Rivers! why, who knows not so?
Have not the power to muzzle him; therefore best
I pray you now, remembrance tomorrow on the lousy
Come, my lord, I'll lead you to your tent.
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
On whom foul death hath made this slaughter;
Fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world!
Paulina! She had one eye declined for the loss of
Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,
'Affectionate servant,
The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily
That holy duty, out of dear respect,
You know the character to be your brother's?
back: call you that backing of your friends? A
Faster than gnats in cobwebs; but her eyes,--
He eats nothing but doves, love, and that breeds hot
Requite him for your father.
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
For if thou path, thy native semblance on,
with the smoke out at the chimney.
And through him what is nearest to him, which is
Nor can imagination form a shape,
He's mine, or I am his: mine emulation
some scholar would conjure her; for certainly, while
How now, my lady the hostess! what sayest thou to
And they did make no noise, in such a night
question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
I wish my brother make good time with him,
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
Her hand on her bosom, her head on her knee,
The trust I have is in mine innocence,
and their consent of one direct way should be at
our fortunes from us till our oldness cannot relish
Who with them was a rated sinew too
The wealthy curled darlings of our nation,
Descended from the Duke of Clarence' house,
And made an evening at the noontide prick.
Among the high tides in the calendar?
But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
For villains mark'd with rape.--May it please you,
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
The throng that follows Caesar at the heels,
good parts aside I have no other charms.
For the base matter to illuminate
Exeunt
I'll try how you can sol, fa, and sing it.
No money, on my faith, but the gleek;
To the contrary I have express commandment.
Exit
I have heard it said so. O, these men, these men!
Nor fortune made such havoc of my means,
This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
With all respect and rites of burial.
And hid the gold within the letter mention'd,
Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit.
Old men forget: yet all shall be forgot,
move under the influence of the most received star;
Whether by device or no, the heavens can tell:
Perform 't, or else we damn thee.'
Trumpets sound. Enter ALCIBIADES with his powers
Good my lord!
Hath blazed with lights and bray'd with minstrelsy,
To scarlet indignation and bedew
A pretty moral;
What colour is it of?
I will come home to you; or, if you will,
Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou?
If you have heard your general talk of Rome,
that Hero loves me; intend a kind of zeal both to the
But he'll remember with advantages
Regan, I think you are; I know what reason
serve me! Why should his mistress, who was made by
Being the right idea of your father,
Which I, disdaining, scorn'd; and craved death,
That even her art sisters the natural roses;
More villain thou. Well, push him out of doors;
Which that sweet tongue hath made,
Anchors on Isabel: Heaven in my mouth,
So did he never the sparrow.
Why, yet thy scandal were not wiped away
When she first met Mark Antony, she pursed up
for I must let you understand I think myself in
Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note,
And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge,
Address yourself to entertain them sprightly,
unexperienced to thy grave.
HOLOFERNES retires
From honourable sources.
And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
But shall we dance, if they desire to't?
Show me a villain that hath done a rape,
these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these
Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give:
Well, my good lady.
Hark! I hear horses.
There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
And, like a forester, the groves may tread,
would preferment drop on my head. I brought the old
But, I protest, he had the chain of me,
That, to pay grief, must of poor patience borrow.
against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
I make bold to press with so little preparation upon
'For,' quoth the king, 'an angel shalt thou see;
She now shall be my sister, not my wife.
To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
Pinch them, arms, legs, backs, shoulders, sides and shins.
So are you, princes English, every one.
Heard, not regarded; seen, but with such eyes
To swear by him whom I protest to love,
persuasion; and I doubt not you sustain what you're
Beating him
The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes,
tale in telling it, and deliver a plain message
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
It shall be possible. Swear by this sword
But yet I run before my horse to market:
To give me ample satisfaction
what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is
witness. Here I hold your hand, here my cousin's.
Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces;
For, hearing this, I must perforce compound
You have good leave to leave us: when we need
thorn-bush, my thorn-bush; and this dog, my dog.
Let's choose executors and talk of wills:
running banquet of two beadles that is to come.
How far I am from the desire thereof.
not a soldier-like phrase: but I say, love me. By me,
Whiles he is vaulting variable ramps,
If Alcibiades kill my countrymen,
Hail sir!
O, stay but till then!
I pray for heartily, that it may find
Thee never, nor thy traitorous haughty sons,
Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.
What country, friends, is this?
[Within]  Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! here's
That show, contain and nourish all the world:
That shone so brightly when this boy was got,
to be married to hell?
I am sure, I have received none; unless experience
What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new duke?
God bless you, Captain Parolles.
To grace us with your royal company.
Never, before this day, in all his life.
Exeunt
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
Till he be dieted to my request,
No, sir, you must not kneel.
tickled you othergates than he did.
It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
The devil.
They have the gift to know it: and in his brain,
Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
Nay, I must hold you.
Thou mayst befriend me so much as to think
grain enough!
A beard, fair health, and honesty;
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
A good wench; give it me.
King HENRY VIII takes his seat; whispers LOVELL, who goes to CARDINAL WOLSEY
Or else be impudently negative,
And all things change them to the contrary.
To RATCLIFF
The slave of nature and the son of hell!
Fie, no, do not believe it; he cannot want for money.
Y-ravished the regions round,
I have consider'd well his loss of time
The unworthiest shows as fairly in the mask.
What's the unkindest tide?
And all indign and base adversities
I do profess
and give way: when I know not what else to do, I'll
Neighbours, God speed!
Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
Some of my shame; if you will know of me
I will go seek the king.
Do you love my son?
with bitter words. Why look you so upon me?
But let determined things to destiny
never nurse her child herself, for she will breed
As banks of Libya,--though, Apollo knows,
Brought her to Mytilene; 'gainst whose shore
ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter
If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
Have you no modesty, no maiden shame,
Thou mean'st to have him grant thee.
Ay, wherefore else guard we his royal tent,
SCENE V. London. The Tower.
I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart
Did follow to his urn.
So slackly guarded, and the search so slow,
When thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better
If you will bless me, sir, and give me leave,
I'll know his grievance, or be much denied.
To whom in favour she shall give the day,
To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare,
Murder indeed, that bloody sin, I tortured
I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,
rare enginer! If Troy be not taken till these two
Which I will purchase with my duteous service;
May easily win a woman's. Ay, my mother,
Retires
[Within]  The porter for this time, sir, and my name
Than to work any. Will you rhyme upon't,
Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
Do Caesar what he can. Know, sir, that I
Enter MARDIAN
O, think upon the conquest of my father,
And made his majesty the bawd to theirs.
Have you deserved: it is my father's music
Enter FLAMINIUS, SERVILIUS, and other Servants
And he shall buy my daughter; and her presence
They swore that you were almost sick for me.
To tell this tale of mine.
No, my good lord; I met him back again.
And that I partly know the instrument
All length is torture: since the torch is out,
to corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
Now I have taken heart thou vanishest:
on't. Sot, didst see Dick surgeon, sot?
To choose you a queen: she shall not be so young
O, you give me ill counsel.
Enter MONTAGUE with drum and colours
Yet, for I know thou art religious
Blush that the world goes well, who rather had,
Go hang yourself, you naughty mocking uncle!
I was about to speak and tell him plainly,
Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
Of his most sovereign name; consider little
Well, go thy way: thou shalt not from this grove
Age, thou hast lost thy labour.
and thy perfume, they mocked thee for too much
First, sir, I pray,
And turn him to no pain; but if he start,
and a knave; which not-withstanding, thou shalt be
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Pronounce thee a gross lout, a mindless slave,
Varro and Claudius!
sequent to your whipping: you would answer very well
Perform'd, my Ariel; a grace it had, devouring:
So am I purposed.
time that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport
Marry, sir, I have matter in my head against you;
I'm glad 'tis there: now I would pray our monsieurs
and use him as he uses thee; so, farewell.
Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane,
With horror, madly dying, like her life,
Call you this railing?
Thou wouldst have mercy on me.
Alarum. Enter YORK, EDWARD, RICHARD, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers
Not by might master'd but by special grace:
With our own charge, making a treaty where
'In her excellent white bosom, these,  and c.'
This absence of your father's draws a curtain,
The Dauphin hath prevail'd beyond the seas;
Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
Thrive, give him over: must I take the cure upon me?
lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he
Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates,
fourteen,' an hour after; 'a trifle, a trifle.' I
He may a little grieve at.
Sir, I have upon a high and pleasant hill
And preachers to us all, admonishing
Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke,
Ay me!
That Richard be restored to his blood.
Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
I did not give the lie. Out o' your
My mother greets me kindly; is she well?
Sirrah, your brother is legitimate;
To help King Edward in his time of storm,
Let her approach.
exalted respect than any one else that follows her.
According to the honour of his sender;
From open haunts and popularity.
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
Not worth the time of day. It pierced me through;
That you should think, we come not to offend,
Show'd like a rebel's whore: but all's too weak:
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
A thirsty evil; and when we drink we die.
My bluest veins to kiss; a hand that kings
Where's Dick, the butcher of Ashford?
Only for this, I pray you, pardon me.
But on mine honour dare I undertake
master,--I may call him my master, look you, for I
Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy,
deceived even your very eyes: what your wisdoms
The third part, then, is drunk: would it were all,
She cannot deny it.
In my oration, how the people take
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn
How now, Marina! why do you keep alone?
Enter APEMANTUS
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
That ever enter'd in a drowsy head,
wondrous fat marriage.
Alas!
So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
Treason! treason!
Before I would have granted to that act.
Exit
And other chosen attractions, would allure,
In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius.
an honest man should have, he has nothing.
And, after that wise prince, Henry the Fifth,
The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
swearing rascals, that stale old mouse-eaten dry
Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
Her inclination, let him not leave out
I have toward heaven breathed a secret vow
Go, take it up unto thy master's use.
Stoop'd as to foot us: his ascension is
'as true as I live,' and 'as God shall mend me,' and
I heard myself proclaim'd;
Nor play at subtle games; fair virtues all,
Our imputation shall be oddly poised
O, my old master! who hath bound him here?
And you in hell, as oft as he hears Owen Glendower spoke of.
Exit
With that, they all did tumble on the ground,
Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!
Anon, I wot not by what strong escape,
That men must lay their murders on your neck.
why, being son to me, art thou so pointed at? Shall
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
As great Sicilius' heir.
rascally sheep-biter come by some notable shame?
Then you shall be his surety. Give him this
With fame, a name to Caius Marcius; these
I told him what I thought, and told no more
Of his great name and estimation,
this letter to Mistress Page; and thou this to
Reads
And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
That ever lay by man: which when the people
Art thou afeard?
No, not these twenty years.
Pray, chuck, come hither.
Bring him our purposes: and so farewell.
Upon their woes whom fortune captivates!
And I be pleased to give ten thousand ducats
That I shall blush in acting, and might well
It cannot be.
With blood removed but little from her own?
There is a mutiny in's mind. This morning
Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds,
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
But see what heaven can do! By this our change,
bawdry, which is strange; with such delicate
Young scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me?
I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further. An 'twere
O noble English. that could entertain
Mine host of the Garter!
Rome, I have been thy soldier forty years,
Will you walk, sir?
Couch we awhile, and mark.
The fool hath planted in his memory
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
In such a night
Whether I in any just term am affined
change garments with this gentleman: though the
Hearty thanks:
Of many weary miles you have o'ergone,
Dies
And you yourself shall steer the happy helm.
Flock to their aid, and still their power increaseth.
Rises, and walks aside
Let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.
she make her love known, and she will die, if he woo
Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,
Even as a splitted bark, so sunder we
Whither I go, nor reason whereabout:
When the intent of bearing them is just.
Were very pregnant and potential spurs
And threefold vengeance tend upon your steps!
And there my rendezvous is quite cut off.
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
Should bring thy father to his drooping chair.
How canst thou tell she will deny thy suit,
To murder, murder our solemnity?
The king's a beggar, now the play is done:
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
Come forth, I say! there's other business for thee:
To such a person and in such a place,
For which, if I be lapsed in this place,
I have one thing more to ask him yet, good Charmian:
My lord, I do not know that I did cry.
Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
An I had but one penny in the world, thou shouldst
Where is our daughter? She hath not appear'd
Enter TROILUS armed, and PANDARUS
With visages displayed, to talk and greet.
companions, is all ready, and all things neat?
Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
See not your bride in these unreverent robes:
Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death,
Raise me this beggar, and deny 't that lord;
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
With thoughts so qualified as your charities
Either forbear,
That means to be of note, begins betimes.
Out of the path which shall directly lead
And lasting fealty to the new-made king.
This night in banqueting must all be spent.
As woman's love.
She will not.
Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
Knocking within
Things base and vile, folding no quantity,
And pluck'd two crutches from my feeble limbs,
Dear nurse of arts and joyful births,
It is, my lord.
I have deserved no better entertainment,
To have a look of such a worthy mistress.
would suffer her poor knight surprised, without
Then thou art damned.
Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and thee.
I will be his conduct.
conspectuities glean out of this character, if I be
Of ten times double gain of happiness.
hate us youth: down with them: fleece them.
As a wren's eye, fear'd gods, a part of it!
My lord, when at their home
Have batter'd me like roaring cannon-shot,
His own conceiving.--Hark, the game is roused!
My heart is not compact of flint nor steel;
say to me now, an I were your very very Rosalind?
'Tis true indeed; the collusion holds in the exchange.
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
sleekly combed their blue coats brushed and their
That time serves still.
prognostication, I cannot scratch mine ear. Prithee,
He saves my labour by his own approach.
March sadly after; grace my mournings here;
No longer exercise
rather trust a Fleming with my butter, Parson Hugh
Have I not reason to look pale and dead?
And till the tears that she hath shed for thee
And watery death-bed for him. He may win;
For girls of nine, O, think what they have done
Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner.
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham, and the third,
I'll give thee, friend,
'Couple a gorge!'
Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract:
Re-enter LADY MACBETH
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
youth will aptly receive it, into a most hideous
they say barnes are blessings.
to put off; but he hath conjured me beyond them, and
Envy your great deservings and good name,
Enter Chorus
Most like this dreadful night,
to thy gait in a semi-circled farthingale. I see
Subdues me quite. Even till now,
Thus stands my state, 'twixt Cade and York distress'd.
It was my instant death. By accident,
wherein you're happy,--which you'll make him know,
For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope:
Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow
He is at hand; and Pindarus is come
Forbad my tongue to speak of Mortimer;
Stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
Very good, my lord.
Exeunt
'Stroy'd in dishonour.
But yet you look not well upon him; for whosoever you
What counts harsh fortune casts upon my face;
I answer'd indirectly, as I said;
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
But here she comes; and now, Petruchio, speak.
And pious action we do sugar o'er
A gentleman, sent from the king, to see you.
The graceless action of a heavy hand,
Let us entreat, by honour of his name,
Thisby, the flowers of odious savours sweet,--
Exeunt
There shall he practise tilts and tournaments,
He must before the deputy, sir; he has given him
I would I knew in what particular action to try him.
Thy wife and children's blood. For myself, son,
That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
You and Fidele play the cooks: I'll stay
Giving him the paper
Is this your perfectness? be gone, you rogue!
Here they both call him; the drawer stands amazed, not knowing which way to go
little finger, there is some hope the ladies of
extempore. The prince himself is about a piece of
More learned than the ears--waving thy head,
They are apt enough to dislocate and tear
To temper clay. Yea, it is come to this?
All books of love, see that at any hand;
He hangs the lip at something: you know all, Lord Pandarus.
SCENE I. Plains near Rome.
'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd
I meet the captains at the citadel.
What do you call him?
Drew all such humours from him.
Both in your form and nobleness of mind;
Scruple, and prick, on certain speeches utter'd
mouth, and was speechless.
For I was spoke to, with Sir Henry Guildford
ANTIPHOLUS
When I came hither, I was lord high constable
An't please your honour, players
I am a Roman; and my services are,
Nay, stay: thou shouldst be honest.
Than now to bid you hold.
He is arrested, but will not obey;
The idea of her life shall sweetly creep
Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
Is Caesar's homager: else so thy cheek pays shame
You shall not write my praise.
To laughter, as I take it,
To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' the air,
When he shall miss me,--as, in faith, I mean not
News, lads! our wars are done.
A chilling sweat o'er-runs my trembling joints:
loads o' gravel i' the back, lethargies, cold
But should he wrong my liberties in my absence?
This female bastard hence and that thou bear it
Good Aaron, give his majesty my hand:
undone! Fly, run, hue and cry, villain! I am undone!
Here comes the little villain.
Be that thou hopest to be, or what thou art
lingered here by some accident: wherein none can be
If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here
so money comes withal.
Why didst thou stoop, then?
I warrant thee, nobody hears; mine own people, mine
For a dark hour or twain.
Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover,
lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no onions
Come, my masters; the duchess, I tell you, expects
I would the cutting of my garments would serve the
The devil take thee, coward!
'Hold thy peace, thou knave,' knight? I shall be
To reconcile you all unto the king.
Your worship was wont to tell me that
Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit
Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life,
by the lesser legs: if any be Trinculo's legs,
In such a love so vile a lout as he.
And your great-uncle's, Edward the Black Prince,
And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs.
We'll put the matter to the present push.
I was compell'd to her; but I love thee
That you might well have signified the same
Great reason that my noble lord be rated
For I intend but only to surprise him.
So get you hence in peace; and tell the Dauphin
When thy first griefs were but a mere conceit,
The small'st opinion on my least misuse?
Whose minister you are, whiles here he lived
I swear, 'tis better to be lowly born,
Call forth an officer.
Noble philosopher, your company.
Do so, and after two days
'Slid, I'll after him again and beat him.
thou the beggar; for so witnesseth thy lowliness.
And, of so great a favour growing proud,
With him along is come the mother-queen,
God be wi' you, princes all; I'll to my charge:
To know the thing I am forbid to know:
Let him perceive how ill we brook his treason
Thus is the shepherd beaten from thy side,
Mecaenas; ask Agrippa.
Prithee, hold thy peace.
Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason,
a votary; I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the
Bait the hook well; this fish will bite.
Knock you here, sir! why, sir, what am I, sir, that
Thou call'dst me king.
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
You and your fellows; I'll have it come to question:
The servant of this armourer, my lords.
sailing by the star.
Where is that damned villain Tranio,
Either they must be dieted like mules
Seeking a way and straying from the way;
SCENE I. A room in Lucullus' house.
That can from Hector bring his honour off,
But how camest thou by this ring? At my depart
Enter ROMEO
Go to my chamber; Put on clothes of mine.
Let's hew his limbs till they be clean consumed.
What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
No better than a poor and loathsome beggar:
Yet more quarrelling with occasion! Wilt thou show
Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill:
Say that before Ascension-day at noon
And here we wander in illusions:
Let's briefly put on manly readiness,
Disguise, I see, thou art a wickedness,
Both from his enterprise and from the world,
I have served you ever since I was a child;
Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy,
spirit, hath sent me to you.
She then was honest.
SCENE III. A street.
[Aside]  He heard not that.
a boy; as a squash is before 'tis a peascod, or a
That villain Hubert told me he did live.
Drunk!
But fear not thou, until thy foot be snared,
Into her womb convey sterility!
Is he pursued?
Why then, rejoice therefore.
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Could witness it, for he was with me then;
Let me play the fool:
Re-enter OLIVIA, with VIOLA
Exit
As worthy cause I have to fear I am--
That's AEneas: is not that a brave man? he's one of
I know you two are rival enemies:
O, stop there a little!
You sad-faced men, people and sons of Rome,
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
sword on thy side, and yet thou rannest away: what
white-bearded fellow speaks it: knavery cannot,
His honour and myself are at the one,
And meritorious shall that hand be call'd,
Enter a Master and a Boatswain
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
Will lug your priests and servants from your sides,
Their needles to lances, and their gentle hearts
May be, he hears the king
lord the king, thy royal husband: the pretence
I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester:
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
Now heaven forfend! the holy maid with child!
But, sith I am enter'd in this cause so far,
are metamorphosed with a mistress, that, when I look
To let me be partaker.
So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend,
Since you will buckle fortune on my back,
Immortal Dian!
What news, what news, in this our tottering state?
Plead my successive title with your swords:
For, by oppressing and betraying me,
These cheeks are pale for watching for your good.
Forgets the shows of love to other men.
Lord Say, the traitors hate thee;
To please the fool and death.
Here; I will mend thy feast.
it, Master Brook.
Where we may apprehend her and the Moor?
Canst thou so daff me? Thou hast kill'd my child:
Re-enter Servant
To give his censure: these are no women's matters.
And call'd it Rougemont: at which name I started,
A' will make the man mad, to make a woman of him.
him in gold: I heard him tell it to one of his
Our wooing doth not end like an old play;
reproof and rebuke from every ear that heard it.
O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee
Through this palace, with sweet peace;
The actor may plead pardon. I'll none now:
Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee:
That, when thou comest to kneel at Henry's feet,
Yourself, sweet lady; for you gave the fire. Sir
Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
That could be moved to smile at any thing.
No, precious creature;
bear it for a difference between himself and his
Let us withdraw; 'twill be a storm.
No, lord ambassador, I'll rather keep
It honour'd him.
Is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth,
Then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil.
Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth;
My lord is fall'n into an epilepsy:
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
Hast not the soft way which, thou dost confess,
As to us, to all the world, that Caius Marcius
must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The
How this dead queen re-lives?
Exeunt
Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts;
I'ld with thee every foot.
Acknowledge thee their patron; and come freely
please you,
Madam!
But, if I bow, they'll say it was for fear.
O good but most unwise patricians! why,
What is that curt'sy worth? or those doves' eyes,
Disfigure not his slop.
And I, to keep all this.
That befal preposterously.
She and the duke her husband!
The night is dark; light and spirits will become it
She had all the royal makings of a queen;
Hereditary sloth instructs me.
cry you mercy: I thought your honour had already been
Enter MACBETH, BANQUO, ROSS, and ANGUS
Stand by, my masters: bring him near the king;
And whilst a field should be dispatch'd and fought,
'Tis he.
I had been writ down an ass!
See you here, sir?
Exeunt
I thought upon one pair of English legs
beard on his face: I had rather lie in the woollen.
Juno have mercy! how came it cloven?
It is not so; thou hast misspoke, misheard:
To whom this wreath of victory I give,
Be patient, for the prize I'll bring thee to
I took him sleeping,--that is finish'd too,--
Where?
Why, so I do, the noblest that I have:
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
I am sorry for't.
To-night, say I.
For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage.
Wilt thou rob this leathern jerkin, crystal-button,
He knows thy thought:
I am paid for't now.
Led us to Rome, strangers, and more than so,
Enter LAUNCELOT and JESSICA
religion in you, that you fear.
Shame that they wanted cunning, in excess
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
Me they concern; Regent I am of France.
Colbrand the giant, that same mighty man?
Ask my dog: if he say ay, it will! if he say no,
For pity is the virtue of the law,
there, ho!
As much as I can do, I will effect:
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
and no more ado. Remember 'stoned,' and 'flayed alive.'
But release me from my bands
I hope it be not gone to tell my lord
same piece
'Od's lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for
You will take little delight in it, I can tell you;
My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night:
her I will execute in the clothes that she so
Shall draw him on to his confusion:
And here in sight of Rome to Saturnine,
Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow.
Unregister'd in vulgar fame, you have
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
Not I, believe me: you have dancing shoes
courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last.
Inhuman traitors, you constrain'd and forced.
Sufficeth that I have maintains my state
Give me your hand: this hand is moist, my lady.
Darest with thy frozen admonition
We grieve at chances here. Away!
Of love between your daughter and himself:
A vision of the Island, one dear son
I marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word;
And make imaginary puissance;
Could not keep quiet in his conscience,
As blameful as the executioner?
Our royal master 's murder'd!
So it is.
O, I do not like that paying back; 'tis a double labour.
with their left legs and not presume to touch a hair
Had I three ears, I'ld hear thee.
But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
So great a charge from thine own custody?
My masters, know you that.
They are too thin and bare to hide offences.
God keep me from false friends! but they were none.
Is yet the cover of a fairer mind
Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
Where left we last?
For that which is not in me?
My favour here begins to warp. Not speak?
By this rude place we live in. Well encounter'd!
Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice,
And your lips too; for I am well assured
Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.
till he hath pawned his horses to mine host of the Garter.
But basely yielded upon compromise
The proudest he that holds up Lancaster,
Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
Ay, there's the question; but I say, 'tis true:
And what love can do that dares love attempt;
Ay, madam, it is common.
Giving my verdict on the white rose side.
Well, now.
And as for Clarence, as my letters tell me,
I doubt not but this populous city will
you, la plus belle Katharine du monde, mon tres cher
Then she bears some breadth?
And here I prophesy: this brawl to-day,
Thou thinkest not of this now. Nay, I remember the
And presently took post to tell it you:
Define, define, well-educated infant.
Her bed is India; there she lies, a pearl:
Enter POLIXENES and CAMILLO
A foolish suitor to a wedded lady,
Past the mid season.
Did break i' the rinsing.
When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding:
Go home, call for sweet water, wash thy hands.
Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt,
A hit, a very palpable hit.
Clamber not you up to the casements then,
By the height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth
Then give me leave to read philosophy,
By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth,
Go, sirs, take the basket again on your shoulders:
Than feed on cates and have him talk to me
the worst'?
The words of heaven; on whom it will, it will;
I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl,
Exit
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
And follows but for form,
In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,
One syllable against him?
Attended with the pleasures of the world,
To give my poor host freedom.
Help, ye citizens!
Worcester is stolen away to-night; thy father's
ANTIPHOLUS
Most noble Caesar, shalt thou have report
This very day a Syracusian merchant
Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?
mayst be turned to hobnails.
The hour before the heavenly-harness'd team
Tearing off his clothes
By so much shall I falsify men's hopes;
He be as miserably slain as I.
lust, are not the things they go under: many a maid
Mark, silent king, the moral of this sport,
They have it very oft that have it not:
In her strong toil of grace.
Might well have given us bloody argument.
I am ashamed that women are so simple
God save you, gentlemen!
To be invested.
But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.
By the world,
Now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
Ladies, you are not merry: gentlemen,
Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
They say she's mad.
I have been told so of many: but indeed an old
Enter KING RICHARD II, with BAGOT and GREEN at one door; and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another
Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds,
ANTIPHOLUS
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
And press'd in with this caution. First, methought
Pray their graces
And study too, the causer of your vow;
[Reads]  'sorted and consorted, contrary to thy
The bruit is, Hector's slain, and by Achilles.
Such to-be-pitied and o'er-wrested seeming
Reads
Offer their own lives in their young's defence?
The king's grown bankrupt, like a broken man.
As I would serve a rat.'
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither,
SCENE III. Paris. The KING's palace.
Farewell!
Commotion in the winds! frights, changes, horrors,
Did I put Henry from his native right?
The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good Alexander.
Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more,
withdrawing.
Well placed: there stands your friend for the
And with declining head into his bosom,
That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanch,
shall have good trading that way. But tell me, Hal,
While he was yet in Rome,
beneficial news, it is the celebration of his
language you will: though you understand it not
Even to roaring.
And,--do you mark me, sir?
And still is friend to him and Margaret:
My lord protector, so it please your grace,
That almost mightst have coin'd me into gold,
Not till it leave the rider in the mire.
Than the severity of the public power
Every man's conscience is a thousand swords,
Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
Well, lords, we have not got that which we have:
For I can here disarm thee with this stick
Plead a new state in thy unrivall'd merit,
Is your displeasure with the king.
Enter SIR ANDREW
And thou shalt have more
Do you observe this, Hostilius?
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
Exit
Dispatch, sweet gentlemen, and follow me.
Was stabb'd with bloody daggers: God, I pray him,
The gods, not the patricians, make it, and
Let it be so. Say, where will you assault?
And stop their mouths, if they begin to cry.
Let's want no discipline, make no delay,
before the intended wedding,--for in the meantime I
Fly not; for shouldst thou take the river Styx,
Dares look upon the heaven of her brow,
A thousand blushing apparitions
To an untirable and continuate goodness:
Thou hast. Where was she born? speak; tell me.
very competent injury: therefore, get you on and
Upon his party.
I shall entreat him
How say you by the French lord, Monsieur Le Bon?
I am afraid, sir,
Indeed, he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
For present parting; only he desires
And, though we leave it with a root, thus hack'd,
To send them to you, only for this night;
O, if to fight for king and commonweal
Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, and MISTRESS FORD
To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me.
Pisa renowned for grave citizens.
Go to the empress, tell her this I said.
Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown.
How fair the tribune speaks to calm my thoughts!
I told you yesternight: there's a franklin in the
With any strong or vehement importunity;
Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
well knock'd at first, Then had not Grumio come by the worst.
Lord Lucius, and you princes of the Goths,
talk with Margaret,
We banish thee for ever.
I cry thee mercy then, for I had thought
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.
Why doth the Jew pause? take thy forfeiture.
'Tis well blown, lads:
'Thus saith the duke, thus hath the duke inferr'd;'
Nor spell nor charm,
As I could pick my lance.
I would not for the world.
Come, boy; I am past moe children, but thy sons and
To bury mine intents, but also to effect
And shalt be ever.
After her, after her.
Enter Chamberlain
Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
His baseness that ensued?
I am question'd by my fears, of what may chance
Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,
Genitive case!
I am half afraid he will have need of washing; so
God grant him health! Did you confer with him?
The government I cast upon my brother
The palsy, and not fear, provokes me.
well. Your brother is but young and tender; and,
When he perceived me shrink and on my knee,
What may you be? are you of good or evil?
You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower.
What, what? his choler?
Hath not deserved my service nor your loves;
I am glad he's come, howsoe'er he comes.
The eternal devil to keep his state in Rome
Great Hercules is presented by this imp,
I thank you all: drink, and pray for me, I pray
Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.
Straining upon the start. The game's afoot:
Where our right valiant father is become.
You tell her so; must she not then be answer'd?
Have I given fire and rifted Jove's stout oak
They are the faction. O conspiracy,
Cassandra doth foresee; and I myself
Nay, but you will?
the night than to fern-seed for your walking invisible.
Falstaff, and drink canary with him.
But--dost thou hear?--most bloody.
Yet will I add an honour, a great patience.
But more for that in low simplicity
What is the figure? what is the figure?
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
My most honourable lord, I am e'en sick of shame,
Why, now I see there's mettle in thee, and even from
Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her.
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
Marry, sir, to bid my old master the
Enter DENNIS
Has Ventidius and Lucullus denied him?
Into this place, 'twere pity on my life.
To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,
Our rustic garden's barren; and I care not
What, I! I love! I sue! I seek a wife!
So do counterfeits.
the least, if the love of soldier can suffice,--
Thou know'st we parted: but perhaps, my son,
Why Sir John, do you think, though we would have the
It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho?
Did come to see you.
The duke is made protector of the realm;
couples are coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of
Lo, how he mocks me! wilt thou let him, my lord?
What, will you go unto the Tower, my lord?
What is your pleasure with me?
expertness in wars; or whether he thinks it were not
It were impossible I should speed amiss.
And hears it roar beneath.
Paris, you speak
To your free heart, I do return those talents,
Why speaks my father so ungently? This
And here ye lie baiting of bombards, when
Exit, guarded
Gentlemen, I have dreamed to-night; I'll tell you my
Enter a Messenger
giving up of Normandy unto Mounsieur Basimecu, the
In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee;
Re-enter HORATIO, with OPHELIA
There shall be order for't.
Exeunt
But like a drunkard must I vomit them.
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves
Fresh expectation troubled not the land
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Search the market narrowly; Mytilene is full of
Four of their lords I'll change for one of ours.
I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
I would you heard it groan.
Out upon thee, knave! dost thou put upon me at once
But, Valentine being gone, I'll quickly cross
'twere not as good deed as drink, to break the pate
Will I Rosalinda write,
Despair thy charm;
Look after him and cannot do him good,
Till supper-time alone: while then, God be with you!
I think, Camillo?
We are near Tarsus.
As, by my faith, I see no more in you
That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a
To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him.
And you.
The piece of tender air, thy virtuous daughter,
What need we any spur but our own cause,
ACT V
To do your pleasure and continue friends.
For seeing him I see my life in death.
To County Paris: then comes she to me,
distinguish of colours, but suddenly to nominate them
thee coward: but I would give a thousand pound I
That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes.
Is that you reconcile them: while the Volsces
His wits begin to unsettle.
Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
That doth belong unto the house of York,
tongues else for's turn.
For ever from the world. I had my trial,
For God's sake, take away this captive scold.
Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy?
Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
Ciel, cousin Orleans.
My lords, at once: the cause why we are met
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
Gall of goat, and slips of yew
That she did make defect perfection,
He does, he does: we'll be revenged on him.
The greater therefore should our courage be.
I should have found in some place of my soul
Most dread liege,
before you came; for look here what I found on a
That will not be deep-search'd with saucy looks:
Exit
Exeunt WARWICK and SALISBURY
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
Attend us through the city.
Enter ALBANY
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
O, take this warm kiss on thy pale cold lips,
sleeves? do other servants so? Thou wert best set
This chain you had of me; can you deny it?
As far as doth the Capitol exceed
A kind overflow of kindness: there are no faces
SCENE I. A plain in Syria.
You said that idle weeds are fast in growth
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
Look to the lady; O, she's but o'erjoy'd.
Sir, in this audience,
With charitable bill,--O bill, sore-shaming
'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I. 'No, sir,' quoth he,
And so bestow these papers as you bade me.
And hear me speak a word.
Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for we'll
Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not
You do mistake your business; my brother never
'This is put forth too truly:' besides, I have stay'd
Disguise fair nature with hard-favour'd rage;
What a devil hast thou to do with the time of the
And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
lead, and as heavy too: God keep lead out of me! I
To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet
So do I, my lord:
Since maids, in modesty, say 'no' to that
Like to his island girt in with the ocean,
Here.
Exeunt
many nicer needs; the last was the greatest, but
And leave you to attend him: some dear cause
be ta'en from her.
The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
Not I, for this fair island:
It shall not live.
henned sparrow! 'loo, Paris, 'loo! The bull has the
Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon
To you for gold to pay my legions,
for the most part are capable of nothing but
Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justice
A maid! and be so martial!
Her eldest sister is so curst and shrewd
Thou liest; thou art not colted, thou art uncolted.
These sentences, to sugar, or to gall,
Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles,
Flourish, and shout
For, by this ring, the doctor lay with me.
Thus most invectively he pierceth through
For I will henceforth be no more unconstant.
Here, through this grate, I count each one
I spy a great peard under his muffler.
And told me Hubert should put out mine eyes,
Of thy unnatural uncle, English John:
To punish me with this and this with me,
You are mistaken: the one may be sold, or given, if
To make a loathsome abject scorn of me:
Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!
My subjects for a pair of carved saints
Or, being open, put into his hands
Enter OSWALD
Which dreads not yet their lives' destruction.
To walk unbraced and suck up the humours
But the protractive trials of great Jove
him, draw; and, as thou drawest swear horrible; for
Strikes her
We'll leave you for this time: go in and rest.
The best, with whom we may articulate,
Look into these affairs see this main end,
But goers backward.
Hearken after their offence, my lord.
one, I hope I shall not be flayed out of it.
And let her head fall into England's lap.
Enter GLOUCESTER, led by an Old Man
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!
Exit SNOUT
One spirit to command: they all do hate him
Here, my lord.
As thy auspicious mistress!
Direct mine arms I may embrace his neck,
Your grace is noble:
Dost thou hear, Iago?
Were well deserved of rashness.
Hear the king's pleasure, cardinal: who commands you
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
Wrong not her birth, she is of royal blood.
Ay;
The head of Cade! Great God, how just art Thou!
Thou must be my ambassador to him, Thersites.
I would thou hadst been son to some man else:
To sounds confused; behold the threaden sails,
Word of denial: froth and scum, thou liest!
Do you quarrel, sir?
Which is that god in office, guiding men?
Neanmoins, je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon
Who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners?
'Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes,
And welcome, all: although the cheer be poor,
the inside of your purse to the outside of his hand,
elder than this, who yet is no dearer in my account:
Upon agreement, of swift Severn's flood;
But in this changing what is your intent?
To hear of pleasure's name;
SCENE I. The British camp, near Dover.
Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine,
Methinks I see these things with parted eye,
Yet tell her of it: hear what she will say.
His silence will sit drooping.
Who dares not stir by day must walk by night,
Exit, led out forcibly
That changeth thus his manners.
We will, we will.
Well, on to the market-place.
Henry the Fifth, thy ghost I invocate:
I'll do't, my lord.
Not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his
Famous Plantagenet, most gracious prince,
Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast;
When you went onward on this ended action,
Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him!
since. How now! who's there?
To fight in quarrel of the house of Lancaster.
To gaze upon a ruinous monastery;
And, in a word, but even now worth this,
That is Antonio, the duke's eldest son;
His burthenous taxations notwithstanding,
This is stiff news--hath, with his Parthian force,
And my consent ne'er ask'd herein before!
Your children's children quit it in your age.
Pisa renown'd for grave citizens
Harp on that still--but by our putting on;
Ay, my good lord; a son that well deserves
Revenged!
How many fond fools serve mad jealousy!
Upon your oath of service to the pope,
I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.
Ne aught escapen but himself;
Amaze the welkin with your broken staves!
can you tell?
because musicians have no gold for sounding:
Sir, I foretold you then what would ensue:
And left thee there; where thou didst vent thy groans
And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
Upon the heavy middle of the night
Sir, I must have that diamond from you.
Among my maids: full little, God knows, looking
Exeunt fairies
She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
We should take root here where we sit, or sit
Were't not that we stand up against them all,
So clear, so shining and so evident
The self-same gods that arm'd the Queen of Troy
Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence,
Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France,
No, be assured you shall not find me, daughter,
'Tis here!
And bid my friend, for joy of this good news,
And I am something curious, being strange,
Ay, and wisely.
Dispose of her
'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good; and
To see thy thy Anthony making his peace,
We breathed our counsel: but it pleased your highness
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
Exeunt
places: your hearts are mighty, your skins are
Why comest thou?
heard that men of few words are the best men; and
honestly; for, as you know, Master Froth, I could
it.
Has almost charmed me from my profession, by
So to most noble Caesar.
Lady,
That is beloved. How dost thou like this tune?
At any time 'fore noon.
Fasten'd and fix'd the shame on't in himself,
And young affection gapes to be his heir;
Though their injunction be to bar my doors,
Than in my thought it lies.
What dangerous action, stood it next to death,
That have beheld the doing.
SCENE IV. Plains near Tewksbury.
And you, good brother father. What offence hath
I make all use of it, for I use it only.
Than I by letters shall direct your course.
[Reads]  Item, A capon,. . 2s. 2d.
What news abroad?
Trumpet sounds
Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.
Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
Deliver with more openness your answers
Too rashly plotted: all our general force
'Tis well: the citizens,
When have I aught exacted at your hands,
To plant unrightful kings, wilt know again,
Doth root upon, while that the coulter rusts
I must confess that I have heard so much,
Ah, gracious lord, these days are dangerous:
We say befits the hour.
I will come after you with what good speed
By circumstance, but to acquit myself.
And thou shalt find it, Dauphin, do not doubt.
sky: betwixt the firmament and it you cannot thrust
praised the vile,
How? unlawfully?
And passion in the gods.'
The climate's delicate, the air most sweet,
How now! who calls?
ANTIPHOLUS
None, sir, none.
An she agree, within her scope of choice
I care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.
Why then, the beef, and let the mustard rest.
If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin:
The revenue whereof shall furnish us
The sense of death is most in apprehension;
I take all and your several visitations
Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind
He'll never yield to that.
Too low a mistress for so high a servant.
and place shall serve, that I am an ass.
sir, in a dungeon, i' the stocks, or any where, so I may live.
O most delicate fiend!
if a man will be beaten with brains, a' shall wear
Not that it wounds,
And on the pieces of the broken wand
banish Bardolph, banish Poins: but for sweet Jack
Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to the world?
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
SCENE I. A room in the palace.
As the shrouds make at sea in a stiff tempest,
into whom nature hath so crowded humours that his
But she may learn; happier than this,
As in a soul remembering my good friends;
But if you fondly pass our proffer'd offer,
Ere it was ask'd; but when the way was made,
Your answer, sir.
I ran it through, even from my boyish days,
Can justly praise but what he does affect:
Not I, my lord.
Doth swear to the gods that winter kills the flies:
A thousand pounds a year for pure respect!
Yes, faith, and all his lords; the Duke of Milan
Come apace, good Audrey: I will fetch up your
In fine, delivers me to fill the time,
More covetous of wisdom and fair virtue
O, let me teach you how to knit again
And so, farewell.
my dreams again: I will therefore tarry in
Nay, come; for if they do approach the city, we
Although the victor, we submit to Caesar,
You must take your chance,
And bid Bianca make her ready straight;
And therein reverenced for their lawful king:
The more I stay, the more I'll succor thee.
So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,
I do not know the French for fer, and ferret, and firk.
And I'll provide his executioner,
Peace-a your tongue. Speak-a your tale.
must speak through, saying thus, or to the same
Is the prince there in person?
I do not see them bleed.
Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
You are deceived, sir: we kept time, we lost not our time.
How much I have disabled mine estate,
And good supporters are you.
Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I
By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe
He was a man; this, in respect, a child:
Enter LOVEL and RATCLIFF, with HASTINGS' head
Excusez-moi, Alice; ecoutez: de hand, de fingres,
And she goes down at twelve.
Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb,
Cherish rebellion and are rebels all.
postscript.
I find myself a traitor with the rest;
Exeunt PISTOL, and French Soldier
All these are servants to deceitful men.
You shall not go: one cannot speak a word,
Hem them away.
'Then' is spoken; fare you well now: and yet, ere
And venture madly on a desperate mart.
I will enforce it easily to my love.
thinks scorn,
Whom with all praise I point at, saw him fight,
To make the perfect period of this peace.
back thy business there: whereupon I command thee to
Win me and wear me; let him answer me.
That shake not, though they blow perpetually.
Kate, I cannot look greenly nor gasp out my
Which God revenge!
For such receipt of learning is Black-Friars;
Against our rampired gates, and they shall ope;
Trumpet sounds. Enter a Messenger
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower,
a knight's daughter,
I confess two sleeves.
Of Cneius Pompey's; besides what hotter hours,
Together with a recompense more fruitful
A space for further travel.
Sir,
And, if it be so far beyond his health,
And push us from our stools: this is more strange
That valour is the chiefest virtue, and
come; who you are and what you would are out of my
scarce, it will not in circumvention deliver a fly
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Saint George, that swinged the dragon, and e'er since
Lords, you that here are under our arrest,
That you unlace your reputation thus
Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
Why, as you, my lord,
Against infection and the hand of war,
Boult, has she any qualities?
You have said, sir.
And thinks he that the chirping of a wren,
And I will give you audience.
How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
And look thyself be faultless, thou wert best.
Yes, a dozen; and as many to the vantage as would
His taints and honours
did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
Who must we answer?
Statist though I am none, nor like to be,
How I had moved them. Bring me to Octavius.
Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
Yes. Has he affections in him,
And most assured that he is a friend
You bid me seek redemption of the devil:
Not a mouse stirring.
To all the plains about him: our children's children
a devil, and no monster: I will leave him; I have no
When he had done, some followers of mine own,
Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature,
Thanks, gentle Norfolk: stay by me, my lords;
So young, and so untender?
And give them leave to fly that will not stay;
Not only take away, but let your sentence
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is!
open. He was torn to pieces with a bear: this
That is another simple sin in you, to bring the ewes
Unkind remembrance! thou and eyeless night
any man to answer it that breaks his band; one that
Go in to him, and fetch him out.
The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
were masters of their wealth. Mark now, how a plain
To bless this twain, that they may prosperous be
How! dare not! do not. Do you know, and dare not?
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
Enter FLAMINIUS.
Enter CASSIO
Upon some other pawn for fealty.
The price is to ask it kindly.
You rogue, here's lime in this sack too: there is
To bind our loves up in a holy band;
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
brief in goodness; but grace, being the soul of
mourners, and stay dinner.
Should chase us with my father, power no jot
You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
Within the centre.
Stays here longer.
And so I am, I am.
And thou possessed with a thousand wrongs,
Say, can you fast? your stomachs are too young;
He dies, we lose; I break my warlike word;
He murder cries and help from Athens calls.
The imperious seas breed monsters, for the dish
On me, whose all not equals Edward's moiety?
What, ho, I say! peace in this prison!
you give me touch my palate adversely, I make a
Angelo,
And not dismember Caesar! But, alas,
For divers unknown reasons. I beseech you,
This forwardness
Was he not here?
Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.
Exeunt soldiers
I come no more to make you laugh: things now,
The other makes you proud. He that trusts to you,
unhanged in England; and one of them is fat and
Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
simply your having in beard is a younger brother's
virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
Achievement is command; ungain'd, beseech:
But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd,
As e'er I did commit.
Hang nothing but a calf's-skin, most sweet lout.
Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life!
I thought as much.
With busy hammers closing rivets up,
your digestions doo's not agree with it, I would
Have hither march'd to your endamagement:
Thawing cold fear, that mean and gentle all,
There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight,
The king himself is rode to view their battle.
Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite;
The fractions of her faith, orts of her love,
What great creation and what dole of honour
Good sir, have patience.
Cannot deny; he hath done no Briton harm,
The heart of brothers govern in our loves
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
Blessing upon you!
Exit
Before King Richard in his royal lists?
Exeunt
That either makes me or fordoes me quite.
Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion
already made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose
she'll fit it.
Stoop then and set your knee against my foot;
to dinner, thither.
from court and is less frequent to his princely
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
I shall be reconciled to him again.
Re-enter KATARINA
King Edward's fruit, true heir to the English crown.
de knight, de lords, de gentlemen, my patients.
Digging
But in the less foul profanation.
O, 'tis true:
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
My lord,
he could not compass.
In him that was of late an heretic,
The sweat of industry would dry and die,
Some god o' the island. Sitting on a bank,
Upon this call o' the trumpet.
In brief, he led me to the gentle duke,
Their perch and not their terror.
'Twere well
Enter BIONDELLO
every thing that an honest man should not have; what
Which, with ourselves, all rest at thy dispose.
I must be laugh'd at,
Fear not; 'tis empty of all things but grief;
I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
Foundations fly the wretched; such, I mean,
A distaff to a lance, gilded pale looks,
Exeunt
The word, 'Quod me alit, me extinguit.'
Not far, one Muli lives, my countryman;
To be adjudged some direful slaughtering death,
very rogues, now they be out of service.
Ay, and the captain of his horse, Count Rousillon.
action of slander too.
three; for so I have promised, and I'll be as good
jewels, I will give over my suit and repent my
To hunt this day: the boy Fidele's sickness
Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.
Assuming man's infirmities,
Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
Cousin, go draw our puissance together.
Shall furnish me to those Italian fields,
Thus Suffolk hath prevail'd; and thus he goes,
What I have spoke, or thou canst worse devise.
Alas, alas!
But being so allow'd: to apprehend thus,
To have the due and forfeit of my bond:
No danger in what show of death it makes,
Unless it be whilst some tormenting dream
But it confounds the breather. He should have lived,
you; yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you,
Prithee, away.
Office and custom, in all line of order;
Now I am alone.
fortune hath conveyed to my understanding; and, but
No, truly; for the truest poetry is the most
I'll not fail, if I live.
And, lords, accept this hearty kind embrace:
That, Britain, I have kill'd thy mistress; peace!
Or add a royal number to the dead,
Well, if Percy be alive, I'll pierce him. If he do
We must return to the court of guard: the night
It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows
The office and devotion of their view
And tell me how it works.
This candle burns not clear: 'tis I must snuff it;
Not changing heart with habit, I am still
Teach me to be your queen, and you my subjects:
For, as I hear, the king is fled to London,
What's his weapon?
'Tis three o'clock; and, Romans, yet ere night
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both
You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir.
To give the judgment.
'Here follow her vices.'
Did you go to 't so young? Were you a gamester at
And to the love and favor of my country
O, blood, blood, blood!
Take't; 'tis yours. What is't?
Tyrannical power: if he evade us there,
How now! what news?
Whither I am going.
Till half an hour hence.
Marrying a punk, my lord, is pressing to death,
With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the
Wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure:
Alas! this parting strikes poor lovers dumb.
Master Froth?
Why, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbours,
There's language in her eye, her cheek, her lip,
And though myself have been an idle truant,
it!
Boult, take you the marks of her, the colour of her
Sure, I shall never marry like my sisters,
beseech you, be ruled by your well-willers. I will
'Tis past, my liege;
Get you gone.
Lucius, I'll fit thee; and withal, my boy,
SCENE III. Fields near St. Alban's.
Thou dost then wrong me, as that slaughterer doth
And to make whores, a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,
Namely to appeal each other of high treason.
tell my daughter I would speak with her.
Exeter, so will I.
Tell her I send to her my kind commends;
I am as true as truth's simplicity
What, my lord?
Advertising and holy to your business,
Hath married the fair lady.
And now and then an ample tear trill'd down
As may be in the world: his youth in flood,
A married man! that's most intolerable.
Under the allowance of your great aspect,
ACT I
And what art thou, thou idle ceremony?
In the delaying death.
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
I will forget that Julia is alive,
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
So will this base and envious discord breed.
have with me?
live like a poor gentleman born.
Re-enter Attendants with THYREUS
I greatly fear my money is not safe.
better determine.
The smallness of a gnat to air, and then
That they lost France and made his England bleed:
the commonwealth, and turn it, and set a new nap upon it.
Ainsi dis-je; de elbow, de nick, et de sin. Comment
By all description this should be the place.
to be got now-a-days, unless thou canst fish for't.
Grew like the summer grass, fastest by night,
Let him that is a true-born gentleman
DON
The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks,
And vows revenge as spacious as between
Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York.
But give thyself unto my sick desires,
thou entreat for her. If you be a true lover,
proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as
That more than all the world I did respect her.
The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son,
What are you reading?
The knave turns fool that runs away;
it will let this man live! But how out of this can she avail?
Fire and brimstone!
And usest none in that true use indeed
And when such time they have begun to cry,
on his head a demi-coronal of gold. With
We have received your letters full of love;
I am not worthy yet to wear: I shall, assuredly.
The strength o' the enemy.
Your grace mistakes; only to be brief
The native act and figure of my heart
And he that loosed them forth their brazen caves:
Comest thou with deep premeditated lines,
The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
Though he be grown so desperate to be honest,
My actions are as noble as my thoughts,
Exit
A Florentine more kind and honest.
And unsuspected court her by herself.
Proud with his form, in his eye pride express'd:
May token to the future our past deeds.
So are we all.
Where there's another man: the vows of women
bowels, thou!
The fashion, less without and more within.
Well, come, my Kate; we will unto your father's
The close enacts and counsels of the heart!
Alas, how then?
He consul!
Shouting, and throwing up their caps
Being nothing like the noble duke my father:
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,
Could such inordinate and low desires,
Pick'd from the worm-holes of long-vanish'd days,
your leek? there is not enough leek to swear by.
Enter LUCILIUS, with three Strangers
The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes;
virtues it was, but he was certainly whipped out of the court.
In the unpartial judging of this business.
The baby figure of the giant mass
Sir, you have shown to-day your valiant strain,
iniquity, stealing away from his father with his
Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live
[To KING RICHARD III]
She's fled unto that peasant Valentine;
Worthy prince, I know't.
The plot is laid: if all things fall out right,
he were here, I would cudgel him like a dog, if he
With that grim ferryman which poets write of,
Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
Now mark me, how I will undo myself;
fellows' counsels and your own; and good night.
Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!
Who finds the partridge in the puttock's nest,
Is altogether just: therefore bring forth,
Which is the wiser here? Justice or Iniquity? Is
Why, then from Ireland come I with my strength
For I was born at sea.
steal as in a castle, cocksure; we have the receipt
Malicious practises against his state:
for thee; let me have thy voice in my behalf: if
Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;
He was a kind of nothing, titleless,
Can do no more.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches meeting HECATE
With faces fit for masks, or rather fairer
Who then shall blame
Which the gods have given you?
Come, wilt thou see me ride?
If it be true, all vengeance comes too short
Doth ill deserve by doing well; what's worse,
Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
Which now bear evidence against my soul,
Enter JAQUES DE BOYS
And give assurance to Baptista Minola,
To come abroad with him at his request.
But yet,--poor Claudio! There is no remedy.
Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
else; nor that well neither.
As I would be forgiven: I forgive all;
For, certes, these are people of the island--
A hundred thousand rebels die in this:
Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends,
And pardon absolute for yourself and these
the house.
My husband, then?
Both stile and gate, horse-way and foot-path. Poor
You see we do, yet see you but our hands
Now near enough: your leafy screens throw down.
Who knows the lord protector's mind herein?
My honour'd lady,
Then be still.
And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
Stands on me to defend, not to debate.
To come thus was I not constrain'd, but did
That which you are my thoughts cannot transpose:
DON
Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue.
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
voluntary: no man is beaten voluntary: Ajax was
Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate,
One fit to bandy with thy lawless sons,
See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
The very place puts toys of desperation,
Ha, ha, ha!
SCENE IV. The same. Hall in the palace.
For my part, I am so attired in wonder,
And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolved,
How can this be?
If but as well I other accents borrow,
Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
To be so good to Caesar as to hear me,
Domestics to you, serve your will as't please
O, these deliberate fools! when they do choose,
How have you made division of yourself?
And France, whose armour conscience buckled on,
Ha, ha, ha! Well, masters, good night: an there be
Not like a woman; for I would prevent
Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
This is, to give a dog, and in recompense desire my
First know thou, I begot him on the empress.
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
Nay, but speak not maliciously.
That love the fundamental part of state
That will be never: tune your instrument.
And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex.
And with uplifted arms is safe arrived
The tender love I bear your grace, my lord,
Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
[Aside]              One way I like this well;
I would your spirit were easier for advice,
And these same thoughts people this little world,
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
For we would give much, to use violent thefts,
the fish, was when, at the relation of the queen's
But thou from loving England art so far,
Too much to know is to know nought but fame;
But that's no welcome: understand more clear,
Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;
My lord, I am more amazed at his dishonour
Sir,
Than could his war resisted.
I'll seem the fool I am not; Antony
Come hither purposely to poison me.--
You are so noble. To your highness' hand
I was the chief that raised him to the crown,
think your mystery in stratagem can bring this
To Cato's daughter, Brutus' Portia:
Upon this land a thousand thousand blessings,
My services are bound. Wherefore should I
To do me this last right.
an ell and three quarters, will not measure her from
can be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, and
Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
Daughter to Charles the foresaid duke of Lorraine:
For when you should be told they do prepare,
Assay the power you have.
And you all know, security
I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me;
My voice is now the king's, my looks mine own.
And part in just proportion our small strength.
voice on you: you must therefore be content to
And he hath cut those pretty fingers off,
And how shall we continue Claudio,
As mine, against their will. Should all despair
Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopp'd,
Taking his red rose out of his hat
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
do the office of a warming-pan. Faith, he's very ill.
He's very near the truth in this.
this quarrel.
Be given to your remembrance--the description
too rough;
How now! what's the news with you?
The Lion shakes Thisbe's mantle, and exit
Had I been seized by a hungry lion,
I charge your charity withal, leaving her
She laugh'd, and told the Moor he should not choose
[Aside]  If that go forward, Henry's hope is done.
Why, then, this may be yours, for this is but one.
Of the part of England.
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
Dear brother, how shall Bona be revenged
He's irremoveable,
Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
Giving full trophy, signal and ostent
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
Well met, my lord chamberlain.
Who know the world, see heaven, but, feeling woe,
For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it:
And wish, for her sake more than for mine own,
dignity of the whole body.
I will not hurt him.
You cavil, widow: I did mean, my queen.
If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat.
that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a sob
our melancholy upon your head!
To whom I am subdued, are but light to me,
As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labour
That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! I know him not:
Make me not sighted like the basilisk:
When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.
to most preposterous conclusions: but we have
Marry, heaven forbid!
And serving you so long!
Yet will I woo for him, but yet so coldly
That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee;
This lout as he exceeds our lords, the odds
Within the guilty closure of thy walls
Enter Fiends
Unto another lady of esteem:
Exit Messenger
Your lecture shall have leisure for as much.
And when good will is show'd, though't come
And this is Geffrey's: in the name of God
him with any appearance of fear, lest he, by showing
It was my deer; and he that wounded her
The wildest hath not such a heart as you.
every thing and their intent every where; for that's
Our colours do return in those same hands
Most noble sir, arise; the queen approaches:
Make that demand of the prover. It suffices me thou
Be patient, York: if we conclude a peace,
For certain drops of salt, your city Rome,
What's that?
Be not offended, nature's miracle,
Odours, odours.
To search the secret treasons of the world:
Agamemnon!
How blessed are we that are not simple men!
Not much employment for you: you understand me?
My wife! my wife! what wife? I have no wife.
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EXETER
If God will be revenged for this deed.
Being a murderer, though he were my brother.
For this one night; which, part of it, I'll waste
Blister'd be thy tongue
As I am a Christians soul now, look you, this is the
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
Have the patricians of you. For your wants,
his suit and lead him on with a fine-baited delay,
Can he be angry? I have seen the cannon,
The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
And all my powers do their bestowing lose,
How now, my Lord of Worcester! 'tis not well
To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,
Now have at him!
Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
To be revenged on him that loveth you.
forest. Send me a cool rut-time, Jove, or who can
getting wenches with child, wronging the ancientry,
Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself;
admiration, though the catalogue of his endowments
Men well inclined to hear what thou command'st:
Both of one horse?
How! the duke in council!
come two noble beasts in, a man and a lion.
I speak no more than every one doth know.
Exit
To make a bloody supper in the Tower.
You cannot revel into dukedoms there.
And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk,
That's a lascivious apprehension.
Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword;
comes to speak with you. What is to be said to him,
the provost.
I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,
When thou hast stolen away from fairy land,
hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman
Be of good cheer;
And late, five thousand: to Varro and to Isidore
For I am much ashamed of my exchange:
Timon will to the woods; where he shall find
Printing their proud hoofs i' the receiving earth;
Thus are poor servitors,
Unlike than this thou tell'st. I lost my children:
I shall desire you, sir, to give me leave
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin,
Commend these waters to those baby eyes
Art not thou a merchant?
Yet witness what you hear we did intend:
Thorough my rust! and how his pity
All will be naught else.
I fear, too many curses on their beads
Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA
Were not you then as cruel as the sentence
I thank thee for myself.
Go, call before me all the lords in court.
Exit
Thunder above and deeps below
her succor, which were the hope o' the Strand, where
I scorn you not: it seems that you scorn me.
'M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.' Nay, but first, let
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
My soul hath her content so absolute
Caphis, I say!
But wherefore weeps Warwick, my valiant son?
Yes, to smell pork; to eat of the habitation which
[Sings drunkenly]
Than hate of Eglamour that goes with her.
Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Give't not o'er so: to him
Then patiently hear my impatience.
How can that be?
Exit
To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands,
As things but done by chance.
big enough for him otherwise he might put on a hat,
Hold you his hands, whilst I do set it on.
Say, then: 'tis true, I ought so.
Whose worst was, that the noble Mortimer,
Pray, draw near.
'Farewell:'
To smother up the English in our throngs,
Enter THAISA
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
Now fetch me a stool hither by and by. Now, sirrah,
To endure more miseries and greater far
A fearful eye thou hast: where is that blood
For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.
And when she drinks, against her lips I bob
I frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
That every day under his household roof
I give him curses, yet he gives me love.
My motion, have it not in my tongue: but yet
Ay; you did wish that I would make her turn:
Antonius dead!--If thou say so, villain,
What! wherein Talbot overcame? is't so?
'Tis not unknown to thee that I have sought
Now in his life, against your holy oath?
Why, who cries out on pride,
The entreaties of your mistress! satisfy!
Not carry her aboard. If she remain,
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,
And what he is that now is leap'd into it.
Enter ANNE and an Old Lady
A cry within
Fool, of thyself speak well: fool, do not flatter.
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Because she's kin to me, therefore she's not so fair
you any further trade with us?
How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears:
If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument;
Re-enter BOULT
Until my mis-shaped trunk that bears this head
'tis thou
Should I not curse them. Poison be their drink!
To prison, eyes, ne'er look on liberty!
Yet am I sworn and I did purpose, boy,
So he is. My lord that's gone made himself much
But now return we to the false Duke Humphrey.
For, meeting her of late behind the wood,
Wherein we play in.
I'll never see 't; for, I am sure, my nails
Enter TRANIO brave, and BIONDELLO
their will;
'Twixt fair and foul?
You look on me: what wreck discern you in me
In iron walls they deem'd me not secure;
Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
To say he'll turn your current in a ditch,
I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
Go seek the traitor Gloucester,
Who doth he gallop withal?
God's will and his pleasure, captain, I beseech you
ACT II
To yield the ghost: but still the envious flood
Home to my house. O most unhappy day!
So hath the business that I come to speak of.
You Capulet; shall go along with me:
Discomfited great Douglas, ta'en him once,
Make trivial price of serious things we have,
Thou comest not, Caius, now for tribute that
That an eel is quick.
Might have the freer course.
That this my death may never be forgot!
Sir, sir,--
oftener ask forgiveness.
Look to the drawbridge there!
And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
So mighty and so many my defects,
Madam, for myself, to heaven I do appeal,
Whereon to practise your severity.
that cons state without book and utters it by great
Fly away, fly away breath;
For purchasing but trouble; the thanks I give
your enemy; she is not worth our debate: if she
Which rather threatenest than dost promise aught,
She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind,
commanded out of the chamber; only this methought I
For, were there hope to conquer them again,
After his studies or his usual pain?
the count, have I run into this danger. Yet who
He chid Andromache and struck his armourer,
If Talbot but survive thy treachery.
you can the getting up of the negro's belly: the
And hath as oft a slanderous epitaph
Cannot stand under them: if you omit
If thou be pleased with this my sudden choice,
Enter PORTIA, NERISSA, LORENZO, JESSICA, and BALTHASAR
And the gods strengthen thee!
Signior, no.
You have paid home: but that you have vouchsafed,
His words were these: that Richard, Duke of York,
When you above perceive me like a crow,
Go thou to Richard, and good angels guard thee!
put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of
Was not thy father, Richard Earl of Cambridge,
Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.
Nor dare to know that which I know. O sir!
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and Train
If not fill up the measure of her will,
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
I did not: he was but a fool that brought
At Buckingham and all the crew of them,
So, leave him all. Well, my companion friends,
Nor with sour looks afflict his gentle heart.
Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,
Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
flowers and smile upon his fingers' ends, I knew
Exeunt
For the wide world's revenue.
To haste unto your coronation,
To make your vessel nimble.
Rather than bloody war shall cut them short,
That I, your vassal, have employ'd and pain'd
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.
is too soft for him, say I	draw our throne into a
And set the murderous Machiavel to school.
That's lesser than a little.
Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave,
Worse and worse.
For, as I am a man, I think this lady
This bond expires, I do expect return
It may be judged I made the duke away;
Enter NERISSA with a Servitor
Which, as I think, you know not. Here is a letter
The livelong day, with patient expectation,
And if you love me, as you say you do,
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
My Lord!
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
A mother and a mistress and a friend,
Who's there?
Thou shalt be punish'd for thus frighting me,
But what thou art besides, thou wert too base
when you come into your closet, you'll question this
Who cannot keep his wealth must keep his house.
say, when the age is in, the wit is out: God help
She'll none o' the count: she'll not match above
Do I put up that womanly defence,
Such is the lightness of you common men.
Exeunt Murderers
As truly as he moves.
An we do not, it is pity of our lives.
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow?
That thus I have resign'd my charge to you.
For such a sum from special officers
Yet art thou slain in him: thou dost consent
Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and others
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain,
Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came,
kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her:
Exit
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
[Reads]  'First demand of him how many horse the
Thou hast the odds of me; therefore no more.
For her, my lord,
Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural,
work with him. I will plant you two, and let the
It shall suffice me: at which interview
Enter COSTARD
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
No, not for all the riches under heaven.
Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye,
SCENE VII. The gates of Corioli.
To think I can be undiscernible,
Look, what I speak, my life shall prove it true;
For vice repeated is like the wandering wind.
Again shall you be mother to a king,
As I seem now. Their transformations
Than those that walk and wot not what they are.
See, here he comes, and I must ply my theme.
in it. A villanous coward! Go thy ways, old Jack;
In action all of precept, he did show me
Our point of second meeting. Do you find
By cold gradation and well-balanced form,
And never going aright, being a watch,
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
Directitude! what's that?
Doth rise and help Hyperion to his horse,
I am no more touch'd than all Priam's sons:
Go to, woman!
Of disobedient opposition
Say that she frown, I'll say she looks as clear
Why?
Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never
Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
And this small packet of Greek and Latin books:
many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it
If you'll back to the court--
All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
Exit a Knight
Compare dead happiness with living woe;
Meaning henceforth to trouble you no more.
teeth and sing. I know a man that had this trick of
Myself your loyal servant, or endure
The Lord's anointed temple, and stole thence
I will not swear these are my hands: let's see;
Then, if you speak, you must not show your face,
If I forgive him!
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
These My lips,
Upon the stroke of ten.
Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
a carpenter?'
Grant me this boon.
Come your ways, come your ways; an you draw backward,
I never gave it him.
Go, go into old Titus' sorrowful house,
I show it most of all when I show justice;
when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame
Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
Hold, there's half my coffer.
With stronger blood, we should have answer'd heaven
Was to send him; for whose old love I have,
Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;
displeased them, as they use to do the players in
And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?
Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
Provide thee two proper palfreys, black as jet,
But where is Kate? I stay too long from her:
And that which most with you should safe my going,
They call'd us for our fierceness English dogs;
You the like loss!
Which never were nor no man ever saw.
Whispers
She is protectress of her honour too:
In her unholy service. Patience, then,
Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would
Of England's coat one half is cut away.
Is that temptation that doth goad us on
No grief did ever come so near thy heart
Marry, this is yet but young, and may be left
Away! make haste: thou knowist where I will tarry.
conscience, now, is it not?
Now begin;
Better to leave undone, than by our deed
Say, 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
Henry the Fifth: whiles they each other cross,
That after seven years' siege yet Troy walls stand;
In this self-place where now we mean to stand.
ACT III
Go, bid thy master rise and come to me
In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
I bid for you as I'd buy.
Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
You shall have An fool's-head of your own. No, I
Mingle their spurs together.
The very beams will dry those vapours up,
Needs not the painted flourish of your praise:
BISHOP
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
reputation, or bid farewell to your good life for ever.
Therefore we will disperse ourselves: farewell.
Exit
He gives them the arrows
Not any yet:
O heaven, the vanity of wretched fools!
His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
So did he me: and he no more remembers his mother
Good Helicane, that stay'd at home,
Let the rest go.
But that the extreme peril of the case,
Exit an Attendant
So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,
Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia: she
I am not to his manners. O Lorenzo,
Well could I curse away a winter's night,
Lordings, farewell; and say, when I am gone,
Since I have lost, have loved, was in mine eye
What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
If I were mad, I should forget my son,
As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
Is't possible you will away to-night?
And, when the tale is told, bid her be judge
'Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake, and see thyself.
'Have I no friend?' quoth he: he spake it twice,
Some men are much to blame.
Commonly are; the want of which vain dew
Is not my friend: this, to confirm my welcome;
As I intend more good to you and yours,
Stabs KING CLAUDIUS
Why, so he doth, now he delivers thee
it among the whitsters in Datchet-mead, and there
I clear'd him with five talents: greet him from me;
They burn in indignation. I repent:
Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! fast, I warrant her, she:
come forth. Masters, I charge you, in the prince's
And beat our watch, and rob our passengers;
I will proclaim thee, Angelo; look for't:
And clap thyself my love: then didst thou utter
Against thee presently, if thou darest stand.
My brave spirit!
Save for the son that she did litter here,
What's yet behind, that's meet you all should know.
I grant ye.
Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.
pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they
Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
We then can do't at land.
sport; I will show you a monster. Master doctor,
The dust that did offend it.
I beseech your honour, ask me.
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Come, bloody Clifford, rough Northumberland,
It shall;
You are betroth'd both to a maid and man.
For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.
Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.
A care-crazed mother of a many children,
That bear this mutual heavy load of moan,
Some Roman courtezan.
Because we now are full. It was thought meet
He show'd his warrant to a friend of mine:
Enter DIOMEDES
By those Welshwomen done as may not be
I prithee, recount some of them.
I'll undertake 't:
One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch
Dear lord, go you and greet him in his tent:
him, if there be any law in Illyria: though I
All souls that will be safe fly from my side,
Then rose again and bow'd her to the people:
I drink the air before me, and return
Why then preferr'd you not your sums and bills,
If thou be'st rated by thy estimation,
That calls our person from our morning's rest?
Or have acquaintance with mine own desires,
fifty each: so that the muster-file, rotten and
And others more, going to seek the grave
Remember our reward, when the deed is done.
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
With promise of high pay and great rewards:
On both sides more respect.
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
Their tables were stored full, to glad the sight,
You are my guest, Lavinia, and your friends.
That Geffrey was thy elder brother born,
Then, Jupiter, thou king of gods,
conscience; which is, indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
If Saturnine advance the Queen of Goths,
So much I love his heart: but, I perceive,
die a bawd.
And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge
Save that, in love unto Demetrius,
What here you've heard to her.
Abusing better men than they can be,
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
I leave him to your hand. What muffled fellow's that?
Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin; peace, thou fiend!
Re-enter FABIAN and VIOLA
Now I must
Till the last step have brought me to my love;
the Count Palatine; he is every man in no man; if a
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
And he that is approved in this offence,
Faith, Sir John,'tis more than time that I were
Heigh-ho! sing,  and c.
He doth appear.
Would come against you.
You come for money?
Swill'd with the wild and wasteful ocean.
The posture of your blows are yet unknown;
The cruel issue of these bloody men;
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
facit monachum; that's as much to say as I wear not
O Valentine, this I endure for thee!
sport anon: follow me, gentlemen.
Say what you can, my false o'erweighs your true.
this change of thoughts,
reverend youth; and I praise God for you.
What say you to the lady? Love's not love
unless you repute yourself such a loser. What, man!
Cry 'O sweet creature!' and then kiss me hard,
know how she should be worthy, is the opinion that
O Dardanius!
All but Metellus Cimber; and he's gone
Exeunt
But howsoe'er, no simple man that sees
What is it that you would impart to me?
I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may
O king Stephano!
Wind away,
Where is my lady?
Why, stay, and hear me speak.
be out of all compass, out of all reasonable
But I will find him when he lies asleep,
And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship:
ACT I
'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tamed so.
Indeed he is not fit.
And with that blood will make 'em one day groan for't.
Ay, Clifford; a bedlam and ambitious humour
Well, let my deeds be witness of my worth.
So much for that. The silent hours steal on,
Who drown'd their enmity in my true tears.
As great'st does least.
And in this vow do chain my soul to thine!
Peaceful commerce from dividable shores,
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
Was this fair face the cause, quoth she,
Come, some music!
I throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to thee,
But if there be not in our Grecian host
To slander music any more than once.
Enter the QUEEN and two Ladies
am a Jew else, an Ebrew Jew.
Fulvia is dead.
My heart laments that virtue cannot live
Re-enter GRATIANO
Having the fearful flying hare in sight,
up the meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thou
GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
o' the air.
This is my king, York, I do not mistake;
And yet I know him a notorious liar,
if she be mated with an equal husband?
Varro's
Having first seized his books, or with a log
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Soliciting his wife: ay, that's the way
With goodly shape and by your own report
When from the Dauphin's crest thy sword struck fire,
hath not drunk ink: his intellect is not
I loved your father, and we love ourself;
Shall have the chinks.
Whether your grace be worthy, yea or no,
I'll see it done.
Look, Lucius, here's the book I sought for so;
Stain'd with the guiltless blood of innocents,
I am not valiant neither,
How he may soften at the sight o' the child:
arms! Warm o' my troth! I do now let loose
And brother Clarence, and you, brother Gloucester,
Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is
Are of imagination all compact:
you, deliver.
Reads
What if my house be troubled with a rat
O, no; for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves
That temple, thy fair mind, that thou mayst stand,
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
To a new-crowned monarch: such it is
It from the bearer, 'tis a sufferance panging
keep close; we'll read it at more advantage: there
If you had sent but two hours before,--
What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
I will overglance the superscript: 'To the
And vengeance on the traitor Saturnine.
your town, and things called whips?
Yet neither pleasure's art can joy my spirits,
And in the neck of that, task'd the whole state:
We should infringe the holy privilege
But in this kind to come, in braving arms,
O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
To whip this dwarfish war, these pigmy arms,
Believe me, I had rather have lost my purse
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
The crest of youth against your dignity.
And that the people of this blessed land
[Aside]  Excellent workman! thou canst not paint a
He did.
Beshrew me, but his passion moves me so
No! why?  When he that is my husband now
When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
To DUKE OF AUMERLE
ANTIPHOLUS
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
I will, my lord.
Till death be uttered,
We'll make our leisures to attend on yours.
My lord, we have
Young Arthur is alive: this hand of mine
than legs, nor no more shoes than feet; nay,
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
And in conclusion dumbly have broke off,
Find pardon on my true submission.
pale.--I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he
Hath he not pass'd the noble and the common?
Who keeps the tent now?
And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen!
This is a gift that I have, simple, simple; a
Frosty, but kindly: let me go with you;
You holp us, sir,
water on thy choler: go about the fields with me
To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen,
And welcome, nephews, from successful wars,
With other graces weigh'd.
But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.
as thou hast done, and then say it was in fight!
Of our flesh; few are angels: out of which frailty
Once, in a sea-fight, 'gainst the count his galleys
I think there is not half a kiss to choose
To be a torment to mine enemies?
Intend my travel, where I'll hear from thee;
Wherein I lived, the greatest prince o' the world,
And like a dog that is compell'd to fight,
And what of that?
The French leap over the walls in their shirts.  Enter, several ways, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, half ready, and half unready
Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp
met you at the prison, in the absence of the duke.
punishment. And also, the watch heard them talk of
Which way to be prevented, if to be;
Geese, villain!
Exeunt
Thou bear's thy heavy riches but a journey,
The sixth and last, the which the knight himself
Enter, from thence, LYSIMACHUS and Lords; with the Gentlemen and the two Sailors
For 'tis not life that I have begg'd so long;
How shall we find the concord of this discord?
And shape of likelihood, the news was told;
Aside
What, is Horatio there?
That they will waste their time upon our note,
And leave his master Antony: for this pains
face into more lines than is in the new map with the
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
And even as willingly at thy feet I leave it
Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
If half thy outward graces had been placed
To LUCIO
To hear and see the matter.
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
Troilus, I say! where's Troilus?
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
And to his hand when I deliver her,
start not so wildly from my affair.
Alarum. Excursions. Enter WARWICK
God and your majesty
Look thou be true; do not give dalliance
His lady banish'd, and a limb lopp'd off.
Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
No servant of thy master's. Against self-slaughter
There 's nothing serious in mortality:
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
But my true love is grown to such excess
I must attend the duke at dinner: by two o'clock I
Of my wife's brother, then his cheek look'd pale,
You precious winners all; your exultation
Please you, my lord, that honourable
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
On the dank and dirty ground.
Good morrow, Kate; for that's your name, I hear.
Dream often so,
Alas, how is't with you,
Go about it.
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will
And from her derogate body never spring
Exeunt GRATIANO and LORENZO
Into the chantry by: there, before him,
And twenty of these puny lies I'll tell,
French march. Enter BURGUNDY and forces
Ay, sir.
And then?
There's half-a-dozen sweets.
Please your highness, posts
To make it truster of your own report
Why, yet he doth deny his prisoners,
But where's the body that I should embrace?
Master Ford, you must pray, and not follow the
And, for our coffers, with too great a court
But, till the king come forth, and not till then,
Lofty and sour to them that loved him not;
SCENE II. OLIVIA's house.
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
defend all these: and at all these wards I lie, at a
How shall she be endow'd,
Sir John Falstaff.
And what have I to give you back, whose worth
Go you and enter Harfleur; there remain,
Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
And winds of all the comers kiss'd your sails,
And, for my wife, I know not how it stands;
I will not fight with a pole, like a northern man:
Come on.
This you should pity rather than despise.
Which I do owe you.
Quick, dispatch, and send the head to Angelo.
Re-enter LUCIANA with a purse
I love you now; but not, till now, so much
climb in the merriness.
Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland.
Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat
Trust none;
[Aside]  But when the fox hath once got in his nose,
But beggary and poor looks.
Than wots the miller of; and easy it is
What air's from home. Haply this life is best,
What majesty is in her gait? Remember,
I do well believe your highness; and
since Deucalion, though peradventure some of the
Were stol'n, and to this hour no guess in knowledge
Impairing Henry, strengthening misproud York,
A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
That, by confessing them, the souls of men
Tu-who, a merry note,
A dry jest, sir.
I would have all well betwixt you.
If ever you have look'd on better days,
Exeunt
Why, wherefore ask you this?
But Nature never framed a woman's heart
our supplications in the quill.
Vent my folly! he has heard that word of some
Exit TITANIA with her train
Is this all your worship's reason?
What is not holy, that we swear not by,
Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
I will have such revenges on you both,
O' th' other's villany?
I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour!
starve: I will fetch my gold and have our two
Welcome before the gates of Angiers, duke.
That such a king should play bo-peep,
Rather than they shall pound us up: our gates,
That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
With words more sweet, and yet more dangerous,
First, give me trust, the count he is my husband,
sleep in thy sheath, I beseech God on my knees thou
Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:
Revenge, ye heavens, for old Andronicus!
To give these mourning duties to your father:
And, if one arm's embracement will content thee,
SCENE II. The highway, near Gadshill.
Alarum. Fight at sea. Ordnance goes off. Enter a  Captain, a Master, a Master's-mate, WALTER WHITMORE, and others; with them SUFFOLK, and others, prisoners
Exeunt
And revel it as bravely as the best,
This wooden slavery than to suffer
Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
And foams at mouth, and he is arm'd and at it,
By turning o'er authorities, I have,
Is noble Timon: of whose memory
And over-shine the earth as this the world.
Hath made us by-words to our enemies.
Why, what a candy deal of courtesy
Giving letters
The clownish fool out of your father's court?
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
pulled down?
Have I not here the best cards for the game,
Sweet lord, you play me false.
Feed yourselves with questioning;
I doubt not of his temperance.
Shall Kate be my wife?
'Tis true, my liege; this ring I had of her.
Our haste from hence is of so quick condition
Creep in our ears: soft stillness and the night
I put it in the pocket of my gown.
And only stays but to behold the face
The master calls, and trebles their confusion.
Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow and of teen!
My master, my dear lord he is; and I
Come hither, Proculeius. Go and say,
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
That there are unicorns, that in Arabia
and a pair of sweet gloves.
you lie.  What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord,
Maine, Blois, Poictiers, and Tours, are won away,
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
But thou mistakest me much to think I do:
This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.
Thou hast lost by this a kingdom.
Exeunt DUKE VINCENTIO and Provost
With one that, in her sex, her years, profession,
Who should against his murderer shut the door,
Why Somerset should be preferred in this.
Peace! let us hear what Antony can say.
To wear a heart so white.
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
King Henry's peers and chief nobility
It is a damned and a bloody work;
If any noise or soldier you perceive
I will say thus much for him, if a prince
Sings
[Within]  I do beseech you
But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter;
Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have
He is of a very melancholy disposition.
Nature's own sweet and cunning hand laid on:
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
During the life, let us not wrong it dead.
no-verbs. Give me thy hand, terrestrial; so. Give me
You tempt him over-much.
There is none of my uncle's marks upon you: he
Let's reason with the worst that may befall.
Exit
Exit
To kill the king at Oxford.
And hath shipped me intil the land,
Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal! what a brawling dost
And wrath o'erwhelm'd my pity: I request you
I should so.
To merit bliss by making me despair:
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY, and forces; WARWICK, GLOUCESTER, EXETER, and others
Blunt wedges rive hard knots: the seeded pride
With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire,
O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
'Item: She is proud.'
Sir, I do know you;
This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child;
Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils,
Of burning cressets; and at my birth
you kiss your hands: that courtesy would be
How now, my lord, what say the citizens?
My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet,
I am glad to see you well:
The more shame for you, Judas.
he be perjured, see you now, his reputation is as
counsel and understand what advice shall thrust upon
Humbly call'd mistress.
If thou wilt not, befall what may befall,
Bare-headed plodded by my foot-cloth mule
That what he speaks is all in debt; he owes
him, Kate.
War! war! no peace! peace is to me a war
woman. Him I, as my ever-esteemed duty pricks me on,
Pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but
Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them,
tromperies.
What, Patch-breech, I say!
does stand,
I'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night,
For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
Here is a place reserved, sir.
Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus:
In love and service to you evermore.
To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word
O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
To glad your ear, and please your eyes.
The duke cannot deny the course of law:
'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.
beseech you, follow.
Lord, who would live turmoiled in the court,
marry, and amen! Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I
care not who knows so much of my mettle.
man here to school. Look, where his master comes;
For a reply, at least if you make a care
Which live like venom where no venom else
We charge you, in the name of God, take heed;
And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils
Those will I muster up: and thou, son Clarence,
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
things should be: all difficulties are but easy
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
I prithee, do so.
All this is so: but what of this, my lord?
For our advantage on the bitter cross.
After his patient's death: the king already
And you were sworn true subjects unto me:
Exeunt
And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.
your heart: but, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
Trail'st thou the puissant pike?
Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
Is't so, indeed.
Into the purse of rich prosperity
Whither?
No, Sir John; You do not know me, Sir John. I know
And wander up and down to view the city.
beggar dwell near him; or, the church stands by thy
Dashes the fire out. O, I have suffered
Then, by the lawful power that I have,
the deed in the praise.
Armado is a most illustrious wight,
Till this time pomp was single, but now married
We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled
And I was going to your lodging, Cassio.
Ay, we may march in England or in France,
Cloten, thou villain.
He is not emulous, as Achilles is.
get his sinews to make catlings on.
O that it were to do! What have we done?
Yet but three? Come one more;
Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
Than Marchioness of Pembroke: to which title
away as nimbly, with as quick dexterity, and roared
By foul play, as thou say'st, were we heaved thence,
As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea
And now what rests but that we spend the time
Kinsmen of mine, three at the least, that have
the fool said, and so say I, and I the fool: well
And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart,
Nay, but I know who loves him.
A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too!
This whimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy;
Were he to stand for consul, never would he
Enter RICHMOND, OXFORD, BLUNT, HERBERT, and others, with drum and colours
SCENE III. Pomfret Castle.
Than wife is to the husband? If this law
Sweet Portia, welcome.
Enter MACBETH
ANTIPHOLUS
My casket and my jewels; and bid Nicander
satisfy my opinion, and partly for the satisfaction,
And lowly words were ransom for their fault.
For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd,
And damnable ingrateful: nor was't much,
There, an't shall please you; a foolish mild man; an
To walk where any honest man resort.
Pardon, good father! good my mother, pardon!
too.
The tread of a man's foot: to the wars!
Remaining now in Gallia?
Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word,
Exit
jealousy man: she leads a very frampold life with
it drizzles rain; and I will, like a true drunkard,
To suffer with the body: I'll forbear;
That he should come about your royal person
Are you in earnest, sir?
In this just suit come I to move your grace.
doubt not but I shall find them tractable enough.
God forbid any malice should prevail,
Soothsayer!
Re-enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
He vanishes in thunder; then, to soft music  enter the Shapes again, and dance, with mocks and mows, and carrying out the table
The knee before him, and returns in peace
Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown,
send ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to
Well, sir, good night.
This will last out a night in Russia,
Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
My revenge properly, my remission lies
And, with thy shame, thy father's sorrow die!
And I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts;
How, my pretty York? I pray thee, let me hear it.
What is't thou canst demand?
For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if
here, Cassio,
The ways are dangerous.
Upon my blessing, I command thee go.
Is as 'twere born so.
Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
He could have temporized.
With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep:
That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke?
Drown the lamenting fool in sea-salt tears.
As it shall follow in my correction: and God defend
Dear sovereign, pardon to me.
believe,' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on
woman! My bed shall be abused, my coffers
And when he heard him swear and vow to God
Yet, spaniel-like, the more she spurns my love,
Such thoughts and such, or I could make him swear
Am I both priest and clerk? well then, amen.
come not near Casca; have an eye to Cinna, trust not
Noble Antony,
Pray you, speak no more to me: I will leave all as I
Here where his daughter dwells; and on this coast
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
Your mistress' name?
do the part of an honest man in it.
Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
She should that duty leave unpaid to you,
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
Ay, but she's come to beg, Warwick to give;
joy waded in tears. There was casting up of eyes,
No, by my life and soul!
Which quired with my drum, into a pipe
Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke,
By the false faith of him I trusted most;
Comes forward
Who does i' the wars more than his captain can
If frosts and fasts, hard lodging and thin weeds
Acquainted with this stranger 'tis as like you
Be to me and every man that dares not fight!
By this I shall perceive the commons' mind,
You rise to play and go to bed to work.
And now let's go hand in hand, not one before another.
What tributaries follow him to Rome,
Pardon me, dear madam;
Capitulate against us and are up.
Pure Dian, bless thee for thy vision! I
Biron, they will shame us: let them not approach.
Sir Topas!
Who since I heard to be discomfited.
The stone's too hard to come by.
O, true, good Catesby: bid him levy straight
Unto his honour, has my lord's meat in him:
Incite them to quick motion; for I must
The ancient Roman honour more appears
And we must root him out. From your affairs
I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
To the Fool
Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall
Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms
Calpurnia!
The trumpets sound. Enter the young PRINCE EDWARD, GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM, CARDINAL, CATESBY, and others
An if we live, we live to tread on kings;
And still it might, and yet it may again,
So take her to thee, shepherd: fare you well.
Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
Whose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets,
Hark, Greek: as much as I do Cressid love,
Has deserved prison, then abound in tears
Or with their blood stain this discolour'd shore.
Bear us an errand to him.
Some parcels of their power are forth already,
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
Thy niece and I, poor creatures, want our hands,
It is an office of the gods to venge it,
Like to a dismal clangour heard from far,
Set limb to limb, and thou art far the lesser;
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
people, who best know him, that I am altogether
Coriolanus banished!
Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror,
And thrust thyself into their companies:
We'll higher to the mountains; there secure us.
Corporal Nym, an thou wilt be friends, be friends:
Lucius, a bowl of wine!
But with my heart the other eye doth see.
Mistress, how mean you that?
And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye
to my mistress.
We'll beat 'em into bench-holes: I have yet
Exeunt QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
My loving lord, I take my leave of you;
The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp
Her to her chamber, that 'tis impossible.
I'll have my brains ta'en out and buttered, and give
And then to speak.
So Fulvia told me.
Now thou and I are new in amity,
We shall your tawny ground with your red blood
Squeezing the juice on LYSANDER's eyes
You still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes
Drawing
Call you me fair? that fair again unsay.
Most absolute lord,
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
name, the which he hath used so long and never paid
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
O Antony! O thou Arabian bird!
And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow
for that. If you would conjure in her, you must
Modest as morning when she coldly eyes
Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE HENRY, and others
Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?
Here comes the Duke of York.
Rise Richard, like a true Plantagenet,
invisible soul,--
SCENE I. A hall in DUKE SOLINUS'S palace.
Enter young LUCIUS, and LAVINIA running after him,  and the boy flies from her, with books under his arm. Then enter TITUS and MARCUS
Sir, the year growing ancient,
Enter POLONIUS
Thy age confirm'd, proud, subdued, bloody,
Give you good morrow, sir.
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
No, you shall paint when you are old.
A canvas-climber. 'Ha!' says one, 'wilt out?'
As masterly as he: mere prattle, without practise,
You must, sir, change persons with me, ere you make
And in their barks my thoughts I'll character;
were endowed with all that Adam bad left him before
From what a torment I did free thee?
Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and
That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
In terms of choice I am not solely led
If Dauphin and the rest will be but ruled.
Petit monsieur, que dit-il?
I shall promulgate--I fetch my life and being
His woeful queen we leave at Ephesus,
Their form confounded makes most form in mirth,
Be pleased to tell us--
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
As well appeareth by the cause you come;
The duke was here, and bid us follow him?
Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,
Your husband, he is gone to save far off,
Come, go; I will dispatch the horsemen straight:
With bur-docks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo-flowers,
'Nearest his heart:' those are the very words.
No, my lord, I saw nothing.
Exeunt ACHILLES, HECTOR, AJAX, and NESTOR
properer can we can our own than the riches of our
Was Duke of Milan; and thou his only heir
Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts;
majesty, in my conscience.
It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
Oh, if you love my brother, hate not me;
And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me
Is my apparel sumptuous to behold?
In our first way.
What is the matter?
You are a churchman, or, I'll tell you, cardinal,
Well
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;
will be strong with us for giving over.
Ay, Apemantus.
To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor--
But toiling desperately to find it out,--
Or force of Greekish sinews; you shall do more
To give you over at this first encounter,
duke to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing it
But for a satisfaction of my thought;
Where you may have such vantage on the duke,
Sweet lovers love the spring.
true, think you?
And by the second hour in the morning
What's the matter? how now!
Exit IAGO
Hadst thou descended from another house.
And for his own advantage.
His grief grew puissant and the strings of life
Do me the favour to dilate at full
But for my hand, as unattempted yet,
O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye:
I hope, upon familiarity will grow more contempt:
A pack of blessings lights up upon thy back;
Away, sir! you must go.
Nay, he will do it. 'Tis a goodly credit for you.
If thine consider'd prove the thousandth part
Virgins and boys, mid-age and wrinkled eld,
wilt not promise, the gods plague thee, for thou art
Giving him a shilling
Pardon, goddess of the night,
Nine Worthies.
But tell me true, will't be a match?
Why, this is very midsummer madness.
Make space enough between you.
As best thou art experienced, since thou know'st
Scarce show a harvest of their heavy toil:
Which whilst it was mine had annex'd unto't
Did he never make you laugh?
So incapable of help.
Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
I mean, my head upon your lap?
Unless the gods delight in tragedies?
Even so mayst thou the giddy men of Rome.
My treasure's in the harbour, take it. O,
In their nativity all truth appears.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
take it in what sense thou wilt.
This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
In such disdainful manner me to woo.
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.
There is a monastery two miles off;
Albeit unused to the melting mood,
I will not shame myself to give you this.
These tidings will well comfort Cassius.
Enter DIOMEDES
The citizens fly and forsake their houses:
Go down upon him, you have power enough,
Ye white-limed walls! ye alehouse painted signs!
Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl,
Sir, his wife some two months since fled from his
Desire to breed by me. Here's flowers for you;
No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how
we shall never see the end of it. Who goes there?
Or know what ground's made happy by his breath.
Where I have hope to see the nuptial
To tell this story, that you might excuse
I'll take it as a peril to my soul,
My doe with the black scut! Let the sky rain
I prithee, who?
It is my arm.
in the next room.
Exeunt
Went'st not thou to her for a purse of ducats?
Five men to twenty! though the odds be great,
I'll trust, by leisure, him that mocks me once;
And York as fast upon your grace exclaims;
Many receipts he gave me: chiefly one.
Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him: conclude,
To yield me often tidings: neither know I
Coupled to nature.
You greet with present grace and great prediction
To her let us garlands bring.
Was to them as a painting: now this masque
The next news is, I have to London sent
Even in the jaws of danger and of death.
You are sent for to the Capitol. 'Tis thought
And, pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure,
Is but the vain breath of a common man:
That chair stand empty: but we all are men,
Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
Never was waves nor wind more violent;
As goddess-like to her admired lays;
And when the king comes, offer no violence,
O my poor Rosalind, whither wilt thou go?
glass-gazing, super-serviceable finical rogue;
Enter HASTINGS
So much of bad already hath possess'd them.
SCENE V. Alexandria. MARK ANTONY's camp.
Nay, go not back.
thy husband were dead: I'll speak it before the
And blind oblivion swallow'd cities up,
For such a one we show'd 'em: if they smile,
Beseeming such a wife as your fair daughter:
Which we, God knows, have turn'd another way,
you use him kindly? He will line your apron with gold.
Most like I did, for I was dead.
To the April day again. Come, damned earth,
How calm and gentle I proceeded still
So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.
ANTIPHOLUS
And that would set my teeth nothing on edge,
To my fortunes and me.
And bless it to all fair prosperity:
Holds his soul light; he dies upon his motion.
Proclaim it, provost, round about the city.
That we are those which chased you from the field
And make high majesty look like itself,
What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
It is not Caesar's natural vice to hate
In faith,
Deceitful Warwick! it was thy device
Alisander the conqueror! You will be scraped out of
To come and sport: her peacocks fly amain:
As little as a crow, or less, ere left
Then I must not say no.
we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,
That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,
My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth
And spurn in pieces posts of adamant:
FALSTAFF hides himself
I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.
Witness, how dear I hold this confirmation.
rate, and that hath taught me to say this:
At three and two years old, I stole these babes;
Accuse the thunderer, whose bolt, you know,
Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
him.
hanging, or of some death more long in
To some she beggar and compounded thee
Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell: go, say I
Are excellent in making ladies trip;
Where is your son?
This and my food are equals; there's no odds:
Why, these balls bound; there's noise in it. 'Tis hard:
That, were I crown'd the most imperial monarch,
that they come from my niece, and that she's in
All poverty was scorn'd, and pride so great,
Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
Is bound for Italy; he embark'd at Milford;
The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,
Why, lords, what wrongs are these! was ever seen
Some that will thank you, making just report
It fits thee not to ask the reason why,
A devil.
The secret'st man of blood. What is the night?
I purpose not to wait on fortune till
Faith, so they say; but I think it rather consists
All in the morning betime,
Not now to hear thee sing; I take no pleasure
But wherefore art not in thy shop today?
Mark Antony shall say I am not well,
Cheerly, my lord	how fares your grace?
But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you,
His spell in that is out: the king hath found
What shall become of me?
Death to thyself but to thy lewd-tongued wife,
Banished Valentine.
'twill be his bane; he cannot bear it.
Which is the Frenchman?
And through Wall's chink, poor souls, they are content
And happily I have arrived at the last
And I will use the olive with my sword,
Leonatus! a banished rascal; and he's another,
fingers off it. And then he offered it the third
But she loves you?
Exit Falstaff
Enter a Pedant
Most sure, the goddess
As all the metal in your shop will answer.
I am hush'd until our city be a-fire,
A caudle, ho!
Preferment goes by letter and affection,
cold as any stone; then I felt to his knees, and
Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
of them; if th' other two be brained like us, the
Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
My lord, I'll tell you; that self bill is urged,
his heart for a favour.
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds:
and what delight shall she have to look on the
March on, join bravely, let us to't pell-mell
times seven years; and since I could distinguish
And ever shall
of them; two I am sure I have paid, two rogues
All given to mine ear.
But none can drive him from the envious plea
To MARK ANTONY
Word of denial in thy labras here!
had been tabled by his side and I to peruse him by items.
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA severally
And justly too, I think, you fear the tyrant,
What beast was't, then,
Remember in my prayers.
My Lord Sands,
the moon! A most poor credulous monster! Well
To haste thus fast, to find us unprovided.
We mean to fight: within our files there are,
When I came hither to transport the tidings,
Exit
Neither is our profession any trade; it's no
Antonio never yet was thief or pirate,
Take me this work out.
And if thou want'st a cord, the smallest thread
O wise young judge, how I do honour thee!
To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen
Or wolf, or both,--for he is equal ravenous
No more, but that you read
Then thus I thump it down.
hands on him?
Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
By mine honesty,
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most
I am much too venturous
And I will provoke him to't, or let him wag.
A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a
Farewell; adieu.
his bidding. He wants nothing of a god but eternity
How now there!
So are the prince and Claudio, who accused her
I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
the health of black Othello.
And his unkindness may defeat my life,
Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth
Be ruled; you shall not go.
Mass, thou lovedst plums well, that wouldst
For I have often heard my mother say
And for his safety there I'll best devise.
And flies fled under shade, why, then the thing of courage
Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine; fill full.
Then his good report should have been my son; I
Let me live here ever;
followers.
SCENE III. A room in LEONTES' palace.
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that
scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the
no wit, manners, nor honesty, but to gabble like
So I would you did; then 'twere past all doubt
Go to; I'll make ye know your times of business:
is risen: why stay we prating here? to the Capitol!
That Alexander Iden, an esquire of Kent,
And waked half dead with nothing. Worthy Marcius,
And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
Drawing his sword
Your reason?
And when they show'd me this abhorred pit,
Is that vile name to perish on my sword!
Hath told you Caesar was ambitious:
O Caesar, what a wounding shame is this,
And my reliances on his fracted dates
ACT V
Apollo be my judge!
Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.
Give me mine angle; we'll to the river: there,
The senators of Athens: happy man!
My noble Lord of Suffolk, or for that
Before thy coming Lewis was Henry's friend.
May concern Caesar.
'Twere a perpetual spoil: and till we call'd
Before the wound do grow uncurable;
In her prophetic fury sew'd the work;
Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne and Alencon,
Come to the bay of Ephesus, he dies,
A contract of true love; be not too late.
I am sorry for 't; not seeming
I know thee not; why, then, should I betray thee?
Ill, when you talk of war.
O, that men's ears should be
am not such a sickly creature, I give heaven praise.
Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty.
cloak-bag of guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with
My lips are no common, though several they be.
We'll no more meet, no more see one another:
Where, for a monument upon thy bones,
true prince may, for recreation sake, prove a false
it in practise. Be cunning in the working this, and
And will you, being a man of your breeding, be
A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time
What a pair of spectacles is here!
thy hand so oft?
And stand between her back, sir, and the fire,
hands for my service but blows. When I am cold, he
Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
Throw physic to the dogs; I'll none of it.
Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,
These Lincoln Washes have devoured them;
Upon my hateful life: another way,
What else? and that succession be determined.
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You had marr'd all else.
Exit Officers with LUCIO
But, would you undertake another suit,
The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste,
On Neptune's billow; half the flood
And you shall have your bosom on this wretch,
yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
Keep my need up, and faith is trodden down!
Prettily, methought, did play the orator.
And better would it fit Achilles much
The form of my intent. I'll serve this duke:
Enter ANTONIO
Will not permit mine eyes once to behold
That thou betray'dst Polixenes,'twas nothing;
Thus to mine eyes. Now o'er the one halfworld
The man grows mad: away with him! Come, come, sir.
And let go by the actor.
best of 'em were hereditary hangmen. God-den to
obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
He shall be executed presently.
The doctor is well money'd, and his friends
O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
And three times thrice is nine.
So true men yield, with robbers so o'ermatch'd.
Alas, how fiery and how sharp he looks!
I would be all, against the worst may happen.
So they do nothing, 'tis a venial slip:
devil my master knew she was Margaret; and partly
time to recover.
That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice.
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
O, then unfold the passion of my love,
Somewhat against our meaning, have prevented:
May the two latter darken and expend;
Nor, I am sure, there is no force in eyes
These fifteen years you have been in a dream;
Then were they chosen: in a better hour,
If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of
But by the robbing of the banish'd duke.
As fox to lamb, as wolf to heifer's calf,
Than in his feats deserving it--for him
will do it sir, in print. Gardon! Remuneration!
I, as Aeneas, our great ancestor,
That I am Prospero and that very duke
Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!
Cousin, on Wednesday next our council we
'Twixt these extremes at all.
He is dishonour'd by a man which ever
Not for my life: but yet I dare defend
thou'lt catch cold shortly: there, take my coxcomb:
ne veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en
Portia, art thou gone?
Shall we tell our husbands how we have served him?
Stood in your action.
The very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
The like do you: so shall we pass along
Peter, didst ever see the like?
Exit CLEOPATRA
The blackest news that ever thou heardest.
Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,
Both of my life and office, I have labour'd,
March: flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
'But I will never die.'
No, in good earnest.
But what's his offence?
A huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out.
Than Hector is: the wound of peace is surety,
had ten times more valour than this roaring devil i'
She sung, and made the night-bird mute,
Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
No, not a denier. Go by, Jeronimy: go to thy cold
To those which would not know them, and yet must
DON
Exit
As sure a card as ever won the set;
And never from this palace of dim night
There is a mystery--with whom relation
You have your wish; my will is even this:
The wages of their virtue, and all foes
SCENE V. Elsinore. A room in the castle.
If you like me, she shall have me and mine.
Cast none away. That I shall clear myself,
Good night.
Sir, I hear you are a scholar,--I will be brief
He'll watch the horologe a double set,
Stabs BASSIANUS
'Sblood, I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot
I dare presume, sweet prince, he thought no harm.
Rare as you seem to be.
Sweetly in force unto her fair life's end.
Re-enter LUCIUS, with the gown
To-morrow I shall die with mickle age:
Which I made known to Lucius, ere the stroke
Enter CORIOLANUS with Patricians
To closeness and the bettering of my mind
O Warwick, Warwick! that Plantagenet,
For all the wealth that ever I did see,
And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
You do their work, and they shall have good luck:
So deal with him as I prove true to you.
Come on; thou art granted space.
As thou affect'st.
Pass no further.
He hath a person and a smooth dispose
Is not nine.
than there is between red wine and rhenish. But
In that behalf which we have challenged it?
will amend: for give the dry fool drink, then is
And out of my dear love I'll give thee more
So that my lord your son were not my brother,--
have all his rites.
Who should be trusted, when one's own right hand
'Tis mine; and this will witness outwardly,
My lord, the man I know.
To you I give myself, for I am yours.
In Egypt with his joy; but between both:
physicians,
Whom this beneath world doth embrace and hug
I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or any
Send succors, lords, and stop the rage betime,
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
And none serve with him but constrained things
I have sent after him: he says he'll come;
Our means will make us means.
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice
Full of wise care is this your counsel, madam.
Is't come to this? Well, well.
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,
Tucket
They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit.
forsake your liberty.
And all your northern castles yielded up,
And not till then.
Thou almost makest me waver in my faith
So smile the heavens upon this holy act,
While pride is fasting in his wantonness!
No countermand; no such example have we:
Shall I be charged no further than this present?
Who most humbly desires you to invite Hector to his tent,--
O Griffith, sick to death!
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter!
Thy meekness saint-like, wife-like government,
orchard, were thus much overheard by a man of mine:
The way into his mercy: nay, if he coy'd
The tongue of Isabel. She's come to know
Now I but chide; but I should use thee worse,
No; for my manly heart doth yearn.
Re-enter CAESAR and his Train
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
I was forced to scold. Your judgments, my grave lords,
trade-fallen, the cankers of a calm world and a
Are of two houses: lawful mercy
move and what he hears may be believed, that the
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name--
I fear thee not.
Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
Have so incensed that I am reckless what
'Tis a derivative from me to mine,
Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and
tale. Have you writ down, that they are none?
To send for Lucius, thy thrice-valiant son,
Ay, madam.
And worthy shameful cheque it were, to stand
Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!
A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect,
To none of these, except it be the last;
A banquet prepared. Enter MACBETH, LADY MACBETH, ROSS, LENNOX, Lords, and Attendants
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
hangs a tale.
He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
Hark! the drums
Re-enter EROS
mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
flayed already.
The courses of his youth promised it not.
And if thou be not then created York,
prince. Instinct is a great matter; I was now a
That all with one consent praise new-born gawds,
I had rather seal my lips, than, to my peril,
Alarum. Enter FALSTAFF, solus
Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means: but as she
Well, bring our lady hither to our sight;
And all the number of his fair demands
Fill till the cup be hid.
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
I could be well moved, if I were as you:
Tut! I have the best armour of the world. Would it were day!
And when the doctor spies his vantage ripe,
Three or four miles about, else had I, sir,
do his kind.
Why dost thou stay?
On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels
Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of the
The faiths of men ne'er stained with revolt;
And tears will quickly melt thy life away.
That thus you should proceed to put me off,
Our children and our sins lay on the king!
Make way to lay them by their brethren.
name, sirrah?
Wilt thou be daunted at a woman's sight?
Striking his head
But to your protestation; let me hear
Please your honours,
here's a simple line of life: here's a small trifle
Holy King Henry, and thy fair son Edward,
sin, then many an old host that I know is damned: if
You stubborn ancient knave, you reverend braggart,
Exit
Ay, that I will, come cut and long-tail, under the
Now, on the Sunday following, shall Bianca
Sit down, sweet niece: brother, sit down by me.
I am one, my liege,
I know that we shall have him well to friend.
How many actions most ridiculous
They have changed eyes. Delicate Ariel,
Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death?
Self-loving,--
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
Our lives upon to use our strongest hands.
By such a lowly vassal as thyself.
Three months this youth hath tended upon me;
You are my mother, madam; would you were,--
her? Come, draw this curtain, and let's see your
The winds were love-sick with them; the oars were silver,
He thinks too much: such men are dangerous.
Where may we set our horses?
O, he sits high in all the people's hearts:
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
How doth your grace affect their motion?
Cloten, the son o' the queen. I fear some ambush.
By that which has undone thee: hinge thy knee,
And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee
And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
Those same noble Scots
Thy deed, inhuman and unnatural,
What's that?
This, in our foresaid holy father's name,
Yet this before my father's majesty--
has pray his Pible well, dat he is no come: by gar,
Death, at whose name I oft have been afear'd,
Nor I, by Pluto: but that that likes not you pleases me best.
Inferring arguments of mighty force.
when you have pushed out your gates the very
But men may construe things after their fashion,
the table, let a dozen of them be--as they are. The
But such another man!
How now, Roderigo!
Nestor!
Ay, in despite of all that shall withstand you.
not have things cool.
And leave the world no copy.
To soft and gentle speech.
That does appear as he were flay'd? O gods
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue,
enough in his belly. Hold, there is twelve pence
Who's there? Othello?
O my lord,
Come, come, you paraquito, answer me
I had a wound here that was like a T,
By having him, making yourself no less.
Fie, coward woman and soft-hearted wretch!
Sleep she as sound as careless infancy:
Your highness should deliver up your crown.
Where I am but a stranger: from the deck
That through the window-bars bore at men's eyes,
Captain Alcibiades, your heart's in the field now.
Should pass this way as you did: O, the Fates!
Their points being broken,--
By my troth, he'll yield the crow a pudding one of
'Tis more than need.
Well, and say that Marcius
That the fixed sentinels almost receive
For, sure, my thoughts do hourly prophesy
When Jacob grazed his uncle Laban's sheep--
Let not a traitor live!
commendations go with pity; they are virtues and
Stand, ho! Speak the word along.
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
Come, come;
Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
Sweet are the uses of adversity,
lovers speak of.
Blessing upon your vows! and in your bed
Why, boy, although our mother, unadvised,
So will I, Signior Gremio: but a word, I pray.
Ere this rude beast will profit.
A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a
O worthiness of nature! breed of greatness!
lying! I grant you I was down and out of breath;
As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my
Why that's some comfort. What, Camillo there?
Do you see, gentlemen? nay, guiltiness will speak,
And never false. Soft, ho! what trunk is here
My dukedom to a beggarly denier,
The raven himself is hoarse
Keep Stephen Langton, chosen archbishop
Dost thou speak like a king? Do thou stand for me,
He is my brother too: but fitter time for that.
Shall shine from far
Descend, for you must be my torchbearer.
O my good lord! Sweet Isabel, take my part;
Here, take my ring:
In every point twice done and then done double
And would be glad he met with some mischance,
not, use him for the present and dismiss him. He
Well-liking wits they have; gross, gross; fat, fat.
That, if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall be
I do not like the Tower, of any place.
Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly.
Ah, what a sign it is of evil life,
Esteem none friends but such as are his friends,
So they must,
There is, there is.
Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body
And Roman Lucrece for her chastity:
Music i' the air.
Live, and love thy misery.
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
To answer us.
Much in our vows, but little in our love.
Would not the beggar then forget himself?
Last thing he did, dear queen,
To make the noble Leonatus mad,
and that were enough to hang us all.
He is prepared, and reason too he should:
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
My tales of love were wont to weary you;
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's
Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear.
till now: two thousand ducats in that; and other
friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches
Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
Which writ his honour in the acts it did,
go to him: he knows not yet of his horrorable
That thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice
Which hath an operation more divine
Whereof my sovereign would have note, they are
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.
Fie, lords! that you, being supreme magistrates,
I see this hath a little dash'd your spirits.
We were elected theirs, Marcius is worthy
To avoid the carping censures of the world.
That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.
Is true as steel: leave you your power to draw,
I will stand for 't a little, though therefore I die a virgin.
Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with
Invites me in this churlish messenger.
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Yea, and so used it that were it not here apparent
The whole world shall not save him.
Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
That labouring art can never ransom nature
He was drunk then, my lord: it can be no better.
opinion, and that opinion a mere profit.
since I was three year old, conversed with a
O monstrous fault, to harbour such a thought!
What figure?
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither:
Bastard of Orleans, thrice welcome to us.
Why, by the verities on thee made good,
Thou mightst deserve, or they impose, this usage,
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
Were such things here as we do speak about?
True:
Come, bring away the plaintiffs: by this time our
Tranio is changed into Lucentio.
And lofty proud encroaching tyranny,
Rust, sword? cool, blushes! and, Parolles, live
Or else new form'd 'em; having both the key
And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
Look thee, 'tis so! Thou singly honest man,
Exit
Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger;
Enter, below, MARCUS ANDRONICUS and Tribunes; re-enter SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS, attended
To make this shameless callet know herself.
Amphimachus and Thoas deadly hurt,
[To BRUTUS]  Be that you seem, truly your
Go, then; for 'tis in vain
That for our gold we may provision have,
And, to kill the marvel,
If I would but go to hell for an eternal moment or so,
grandmother: this proves that thou canst not read.
Of estimation and command in arms.
He sends you this most memorable line,
A woman's general; what should we fear?
And made a brine-pit with our bitter tears?
me: hush, hush!
to Brutus', to Cassius'; burn all: some to Decius'
What a fool is she, that knows I am a maid,
God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man.
What, dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel?
That he is grown so great? Age, thou art shamed!
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
Do you know he promised me marriage?
Bitter to me as death: your life, good master,
Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
What hast thou found?
That more for praise than purpose meant to kill.
The envious load that lies upon his heart;
Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
That's well spoke.
You have been nobly borne. From me awhile.
When you are better temper'd to attend.
To wring the widow from her custom'd right,
But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen:
Approaching the door
But, Othello, speak:
And fear not lords, and you, Lavinia;
I told my lord the duke, by the devil's illusions
'tis,--a little o'erparted. But there are Worthies
And make thy fortunes proud: the blow thou hadst
And every drop cries vengeance for his death,
A widow cries; be husband to me, heavens!
Sweats in the eye of Phoebus and all night
Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be
a three-piled piece, I warrant thee: I had as lief
Shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold,
Are like the Trojan horse was stuff'd within
Welcome, you;--how now, you;-- what, you;--fellow,
Why, how now, lord!
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and POINS
The cistern of my lust, and my desire
Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
and lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm.
made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
Bespake them thus: 'I thank you, countrymen:'
Come, let's hear, Jack; what trick hast thou now?
Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.
We do condemn thee to the very block
Thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms,
Of our solemnities.
Feel, then.
Or as the snake roll'd in a flowering bank,
A pox of wrinkles!
Lives he, good uncle? thrice within this hour
Ever beloved and loving may his rule be!
Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor;
Here can I sit alone, unseen of any,
'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
Marry. God forbid!
Let him alone, for I remember now
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
Didst thou, Alonso, use me and my daughter:
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
So opposite to marriage that she shunned
Report be an honest woman of her word.
All pride is willing pride, and yours is so.
In mind and feature: I persuade me, from her
lists. A pavilion by the side of it for the
I have forgot your name; but, sure, that part
Should ever get that privilege of me.
Alas,  good master, my wife desired some damsons,
SCENE V. Court before the same.
I'll kill thee every where, yea, o'er and o'er.
Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave the foe
behavior. We are not to stay all together, but to
O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on
Pray, sir, your pardon.
element shows to him as it doth to me; all his
To me above this wretchedness? all your studies
Well, let us go.
Do you love me, master? no?
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
Lysander if you live, good sir, awake.
of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed
Counterfeit, I assure you.
Our aediles smote? ourselves resisted? Come.
heaven; here's no place for you maids:' so deliver
would think a smock were a she-angel, he so chants
Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;
And who can sever love from charity?
What, Pindarus! where art thou, Pindarus?
The shadow of myself form'd in her eye:
Peter, forsooth.
See you now;
The ancient saying is no heresy,
His coward lips did from their colour fly,
Not a word, a word; we stand upon our manners.
O nuncle, court holy-water in a dry
Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me
labouring men; and therefore should we be
Look on her, mark her well; be but about
One whom the music of his own vain tongue
The one has my pity; not a jot the other,
And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
The native mightiness and fate of him.
Even at his father's house, the old Andronicus.
believing old signs: a' brushes his hat o'
Thine eye begins to speak; set thy tongue there;
This but begins the woe, others must end.
invited you all. I tell him we shall stay here at
Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed;
Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest!
I am not Samson, nor Sir Guy, nor Colbrand,
Do not then walk too open.
I'll end my exhortation after dinner.
Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night,
Enter ERPINGHAM
Reads
moves like an engine, and the ground shrinks before
Falls on the bed, and dies
I have another weapon in this chamber;
Come here about me, you my Myrmidons;
Madam, the young gentleman of the Count Orsino's is
Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong.
And he himself confess'd but even now
Builds in the weather on the outward wall,
Nay then, no matter; stay with me awhile;
I pray thee, mark me.
The thought of my revenges that way
That do distribute it; in the name o' the people
O, my sweet beef, I must still be good angel to
From Milan did supplant good Prospero;
the greatest admiration of the universal world, when
Kin to Jove's thunder, so surprised my sense.
A mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door:
Prithee be cheerful: know'st thou not, the duke
Then, in despite of brooded watchful day,
will entertain Bardolph; he shall draw, he shall
ROSENCRANTZ:
My praises made thee first a soldier, so,
Hautboys and torches. Enter a Sewer, and divers  Servants with dishes and service, and pass over the stage. Then enter MACBETH
Or four and twenty times the pilot's glass
May see the sea hath cast upon your coast.
Against all sense you do importune her:
river; but 'tis all one, 'tis alike as my fingers is
The discontents repair, and men's reports
Knights, from my daughter this I let you know,
Yet did repent me, after more advice;
like three German devils, three Doctor Faustuses.
I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
When it is least expected.
Let it be known to him that we are here.
sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand
O, be persuaded! do not count it holy
Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this league
I an itching palm!
There's places of rebuke. He was a fool;
To start my quiet.
Which in the time of death he gave our father.
What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall!
If you bethink yourself of any crime
Tellest thou me of 'ifs'?  Thou art a traitor:
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire,
In those that practise them they are, my lord.
We and our wives and children all will fight
Welcome, good Cambio.
For peace, for love, for league, and good to Rome:
In their so sacred paths he dares to tread
at this line: let me see, let me see--
she is virtuous.
All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.
SCENE VI. Near Misenum.
very good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thy
Enter THURIO and Musicians
Your guest, then, madam:
Hie you to church; I must another way,
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
And see our moonlight revels, go with us;
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
bond-slave?
any convenience, an he were double and double a
Am I not wise?
Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron!
Good my lord, hear me.
How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon,
Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.
Why, all this business
me, yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as
He's bound unto Octavia.
Seeming and savour all the winter long:
The queen is comfortless, and we forgetful
Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
Thou dost conspire against thy friend, Iago,
How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
Are much deceived; for they did swear you did.
acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his
Shall find their deaths, if York can prophesy.
And that his lady mourns at his disease:
or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
'A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.'
Let us score their backs,
Rousillon, a foolish idle boy, but for all that very
Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristol castle:
A statue than a breather.
When you were there?
Wisdom and constancy, hath amazed me more
Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am
Doth he hear it? no. 'Tis insensible, then. Yea,
Striking him
So 'tis reported:
Here 'tis; commends it to your blessing.
That monster envy, oft the wrack
But lest you should not understand me well,--
It is most retrograde to our desire:
That will ask some tears in the true performing of
My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
Come, sirrah, you must be hanged.
Burn hotter than my faith.
Will cheer me ever, or disseat me now.
And I repent my fault more than my death;
Will hum about mine ears, and sometime voices
That I can match her.
You look wearily.
for look you, Francis, your white canvas doublet
Shunn'd my abhorr'd society; but then, finding
That I do fawn on men and hug them hard
Am I; who ready here do stand in arms,
Exit PHILOSTRATE
That Lady Margaret do vouchsafe to come
as I was said to, Away!
And nature, as it grows again toward earth,
I should have fatted all the region kites
I am indeed.
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!
That the life-weary taker may fall dead
Lucentio is your name; of whence, I pray?
But I'll set down the pegs that make this music,
Do.
be a tall fellow of thy hands.
Grovelling on the ground
What says my bully-rook? speak scholarly and wisely.
For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty,
Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
Sir, I cannot.
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the
He heard the name of death.
Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
finds it so.
That, Talbot dead, great York might bear the name.
heart, that there shall not be one spot of love in't.
he keeps the wind!
And all the embossed sores and headed evils,
I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo
Our duties did his welcome pay.
Unmasking
Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,
By his attorneys-general to sue
There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
Lord Timon's mad.
Reposing on a cushion.
Beside, what infamy will there arise,
Art not ashamed to look upon this beard?
deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil.
That thou expect'st not nor I look'd not for.
wills. If the balance of our lives had not one
If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me
The regent conquers, and the Frenchmen fly.
Soft! What are you
see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
Shows not till it be struck; our gentle flame
I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.
ANTIPHOLUS
They would but stink, and putrefy the air.
Courses as swift as thought in every power,
Have to my widow! and if she be froward,
Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
Deserves your pity?
An please your majesty, let his neck answer for it,
Lest, to thy peril, thou aby it dear.
Only shape thou thy silence to my wit.
Why, I will.
There is a change upon you.
My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left,
Did vail their crowns to his supremacy:
watching! In this slumbery agitation, besides her
To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
That shall maintain what I have said is true,
the king my old master must be relieved. There is
And this is all.
Exit PHILOSTRATE
But for our hearts, he knows no more of mine,
Then, afterwards, to order well the state,
My clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue;
But dare all imminence that gods and men
I ever saw so noble.
you may take him at your pleasure: I will be near
Which shines here in the west.
And I beseech you instantly to visit
he loveth. Assist me, some extemporal god of rhyme,
In the unshrinking station where he fought,
You have Christian warrant for 'em, and, no doubt,
Stay, the king hath thrown his warder down.
My gracious lord, no tribune hears you speak.
this world goes.
A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
Why do we finger thus? I cannot rest
To the prince and his bookmates.
Come, Mother Prat; come, give me your hand.
By your pardon, sir, I was then a young traveller;
Upon our spiritual convocation
That, had the king in his last sickness fail'd,
Holden at Bury the first of this next month.
I can again thy former light restore,
born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral
He doth revive again: madam, be patient.
Here in these confines slily have I lurk'd,
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;
By all the laws of war you're privileged.
For these bad bondmen to the yoke of Rome.
Please but your honour hear me.
Hold, there's expenses for thee.
The word is short, but not so short as sweet;
Kills LAVINIA
Hath an aspect of intercession, which
It is my lord's.
Speak then, thou vinewedst leaven, speak: I will
A victor shall be known? will you the knights
Of moving accidents by flood and field
The duke my father loved his father dearly.
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
In praise of Henry Percy: by my hopes,
Bashful sincerity and comely love.
And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes;
Like to the old Vice,
But see, while idly I stood looking on,
When we with tears parted Pentapolis,
Our enemy is banish'd! he is gone! Hoo! hoo!
'Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!'
And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
Of excellent dissembling; and let it look
Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
with you. You must not know where he sups.
Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never sawest
Sweet Portia,
The purpose why, is here: in which disguise,
Ilium? good niece, do, sweet niece Cressida.
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
To which that blast gives heat and stronger glowing;
Here enter'd Pucelle and her practisants;
Our great progenitors had conquered?
Meaning, to court'sy.
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow
And charges him my lord, with such a time
worthiness.
If this thou do deny, let our hands part,
Thou dost deserve enough; and yet enough
Come on, then;
A sorry breakfast for my lord protector.
Well, I may chance to see you; for I would very fain
Courtiers as free, as debonair, unarm'd,
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
Of my good purposes, and put your children
sympathy? Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page,--at
With words of sooth! O that I were as great
That would behold in me this shameful sport.
The singing masons building roofs of gold,
I think we are too bold upon your rest:
The different plague of each calamity.
Enter AUTOLYCUS and a Gentleman
degree of my betters; and yet I will not compare
And come again to me; who, on my life,
How I convey my shame out of thine eyes
Pray, get you out.
The hostess of the meeting: pray you, bid
Who's here? speak, ho! No answer! What is this?
That Antony speak in his funeral:
O rarely base!
You depend upon him, I mean?
His eye begets occasion for his wit;
a beast. You were also, Jupiter, a swan for the love
The foul corruption of a sweet child's death.
The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely,
O me, the gods!
I' the bottom of a cowslip: here's a voucher,
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
Any thing.
To trust us in your business, we are ready
Dighton and Forrest, whom I did suborn
Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you
Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
The superstitious idle-headed eld
but only my followers' base and ignominious
robin-redbreast; to walk alone, like one that had
Then swear allegiance to his majesty,
But I can tell that in each grace of these
SCENE VI. Rome. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
And bids thee study on what fair demands
Though last, not last in love, yours, good Trebonius.
I ask your voices and your suffrages:
ACT IV
wit near him, that railed upon me till her pinked
And see him seated in the regal throne.
Is not thy coming for my other hand?
Exit
Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:
Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts.
Choose out some secret place, some reverend room,
As infants' empty of all thought!
Leave us to cure this cause.
I make not, but foresee.
Now kiss, embrace, contend, do what you will.
my grace. Rich she shall be, that's certain; wise,
certain that when he makes water his urine is
Without or grudge or grumblings: thou didst promise
Philip of France, on peril of a curse,
On safe-guard he  came to me; and did curse
And the wolf behowls the moon;
With him the husband of this lovely lady:
Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones
poor four of us.
Think when we talk of horses, that you see them
Stay, stay, I say!
is't not? Why, this is brave now. Who said he came
SCENE IV. Rome. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
with the rusty curb of old father antic the law? Do
Some innocents 'scape not the thunderbolt.
Farewell!
Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me,
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
But in conclusion put strange speech upon me:
In our own natures frail, and capable
In God's name and the king's, say who thou art
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
There comes the rain, there begins confusion.
O, 'tis a worthy lord.
We leave you now with better company.
Well, sir, then 'twill be dry.
He that retires I'll take him for a Volsce,
Beseech you, sir, were you present at this relation?
This is it that makes me bridle passion
their ears,
But for the general. He would be crown'd:
Why, this is the very same; the very hand, the very
Faith, there had been many great men that have
Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
unblessed and the ingredient is a devil.
For every man with his affects is born,
I will anon: first, let us go to dinner.
That honourable grief lodged here which burns
Fare you well, boy: you know my mind. I will leave
eye,--by this light, but for her eye, I would not
In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate
aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion; then, raw as
to sea again. Let's be revenged on him: let's
And now by law, as well as reverend age,
When I return with victory from the field
Not well.
That cannot choose but amaze him.
That we are awake? It seems to me
Searching the window for a flint, I found
That borrow their behaviors from the great,
Enter EDGAR
O, that your face were not so full of O's!
galling at this gentleman twice or thrice. You
Exit
How purposed, sir, I pray you?
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
I must be gone.
With what encounter so uncurrent I
It is not for prisoners to be too silent in their
So many hours must I contemplate;
of all compass.
The curse of heaven and men succeed their evils!
Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her:
Alas, sir, be patient. What say you sir? I am
Do give thee five-fold blazon: not too fast:
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
BISHOP
Who may that be, I pray you?
Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him.
And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face,
O, my oblivion is a very Antony,
Enlink'd to waste and desolation?
Pray, let us go.
Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself;
will;'tis strongly wedged up in a block-head, but
Re-enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans.
Teach thy necessity to reason thus;
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
husband is this morning gone a-birding: I have
Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?
Unlocks the door
Peep through thy marble mansion; help;
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog,
Is severally in all. Let's quit this ground,
Long sitting to determine poor men's causes
so doth the hound his master, the ape his keeper,
Patience is for poltroons, such as he:
His resemblance, being not like the duke;
Detain no jot, I charge thee: write to him--
The passage and whole carriage of this action
Your gracious self to take on you the charge
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
And not have strew'd thy grave.
Gentlemen,--
Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you:
I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes,
And after scandal them, or if you know
O, she that hath a heart of that fine frame
What is 't you say? the life?
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
Ay, and the approbation of those that weep this
in the reeky painting, sometime like god Bel's
Hie to the Goths, and raise an army there:
He's a soldier, and for one to say a soldier lies,
I love not many words.
And so 'tis.
What, art thou hurt?
She that in wisdom never was so frail
The one is my sovereign, whom both my oath
O how that name befits my composition!
my uttermost power: he is not-God be praised and
So many hours must I take my rest;
Putting on the ring
That feeds and breeds by a composture stolen
To pass assurance of a dower in marriage
pray you, what thinks he of our estate?
Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!
The virtuous Cranmer.
Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
But only they have privilege to live.
For this affair. Some four or five attend him;
Bring forth men-children only;
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice
Nor more can you distinguish of a man
Lear's shadow.
This is the brief of money, plate, and jewels,
And hemm'd about with grim destruction:
'Tis the Lord Hastings, the king's chiefest friend.
No, madam; so it stead you, I will write
Exit
Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount.
His wife but yesternight was brought to bed;
That errs in ignorance and not in cunning,
By waves from coast to coast is tost:
Nay, all of you that stand and look upon,
might be knighted. I shall think the worse of fat
Nor are you therein, by my life, deceived,
And now, instead of bullets wrapp'd in fire,
A buck-basket!
'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness; the one
The injuries that they themselves procure
And you must needs bestow her funeral;
Poor Desdemona! I am glad thy father's dead:
doe?
Whose foot spurns back the ocean's roaring tides
I take it, your own business calls on you
that thou wouldst think I had sold my farm to buy my
stock, and freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end
Hark, hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings,
Henry the Sixth, in infant bands crown'd King
The queen is coming with a puissant host;
And that, by great injunctions, I am bound
Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me
Like workmen. I'll example you with thievery.
Enter, as to the Parliament, HENRY BOLINGBROKE,  DUKE OF AUMERLE, NORTHUMBERLAND, HENRY PERCY, LORD  FITZWATER, DUKE OF SURREY, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,  the Abbot Of Westminster, and another Lord, Herald, Officers, and BAGOT
Come, Desdemona: I have but an hour
And the ill counsel of a desert place
For courage mounteth with occasion:
Doing the honour of thy lordliness
Thou then look'dst like a villain; now methinks
My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in sack:
A milk-sop, one that never in his life
The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out
motions: if it be my luck, so; if not, happy man be
It came to us, I do in justice charge thee,
Good boy, in Virgo's lap; give it Pallas.
When arm in arm they both came swiftly running,
Shall I descend? and will you give me leave?
Wither one rose, and let the other flourish;
When my indispos ition put you back:
To make this creature fruitful!
Let him be whipt and hang'd.
heavy: ask my Lady Beatrice else; here she comes.
O, she was nought; and long of her it was
But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
to this paltry knight.
And fertile every wish, a million.
Alarum. Enter a Son that has killed his father, dragging in the dead body
I am afraid; and yet I'll venture it.
Without perdition, and loss assume all reason
We do instate and widow you withal,
With her prepared nails.
O monstrous! what reproachful words are these?
Commend thy grievance to my holy prayers,
Why look you still so stern and tragical?
not fail her.
The fire seven times tried this:
My king is tangled in affection to
that you know: if you will follow me, I will show
As he shall think by our true diligence
this instant to build on thee a better opinion than
I must not have you henceforth question me
As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter,
Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee.
Music
O'ertake pursued success, but I do feel,
I will look further into't: and I have a disguise
Let her come in.
Farewell, my sons: see that you make her sure.
So dreadful will not be as was his sight.
Out, treacherous villain!
At our more leisure shall I render you;
Shall stain your brother: make your soonest haste;
victory in his pocket? the wounds become him.
In evil mixture to disorder wander,
To be up after midnight and to go to bed then, is
Of thy misprision must perforce ensue
Will hear your idle scorns, continue then,
Stabs herself
Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
Jewel of children, seen this hour, he had pair'd
Women! Help Heaven! men their creation mar
humour to knock you indifferently well. If you grow
But, by the mass, our hearts are in the trim;
Into a havior of less fear, ere wildness
No more than from my soul I mourn for yours.
Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me:
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
Halloo your name to the reverberate hills
Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him?
Shall I teach you to know?
and blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my
Converting all your sounds of woe
Yields up his life unto a world of odds:
eat; go to, follow.
The duke's in us; and we will hear you speak:
How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport,
And these mine enemies are all knit up
By this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper and
My father and Glendower being both away,
They are the books, the arts, the academes,
Our soldiers stand full fairly for the day.
Go, sound thy trumpet in the market-place;
Thou divine Imogen, what thou endurest,
I never knew man hold vile stuff so dear.
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
Go in, Bianca:
I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor
And why rail I on this Commodity?
I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
the spirit of love in her, that he will appear in
No, my lord.
What's your Will?
Come, vial.
Our human generation you shall find
The greatest of your having lacks a half
Being black put us in mind they hide the fair;
And me, my lord, grant me the combat too.
Which of you saw Sir Eglamour of late?
Thou shalt fly him and he shall seek thy love.
scene that I would see, which will be merely a
lost by nature.
he would put us two. I had rather be a giantess,
Was yours by accident; had it gone with us,
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
By testament have given to the church
I should fight withal, if he be alive.
Farewell Andronicus, my noble father,
Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old
'Item: She hath a sweet mouth.'
To be your regent in the realm of France.
some to make bonfires, each man to what sport and
the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek;
When the alarum were struck than idly sit
What's Antony? The god of Jupiter.
Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth
No.
more said? he is good and fair. Is Sir John
The chain were longer and the letter short?
What is the jay more precious than the lark,
And when he was not six and twenty strong,
Usurps the regal title and the seat
I know not how a traitor.
'Fair cousin'? I am greater than a king:
If she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife:
Thou hast hit it; for there's no better sign of a
Why, my sweet lord?
The people's magistrates.
Into life's flower again!
Pardon me, Margaret; pardon me, sweet son:
Stand back, you lords, and give us leave awhile.
To this pernicious caitiff deputy,--
As we with honour and respect may take,
Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read--
That for the beauty thinks it excellent.
Then vail your ignorance; if none, awake
valorous, and thrice-worthy signieur of England.
Let me be recorded by the righteous gods,
Even in the soul of sound good-fellowship,
I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it:
Ere he attain his easeful western bed:
O, I do fear thee, Claudio; and I quake,
Citizens steal away. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
When creeping murmur and the poring dark
Yet Hermia still loves you: then be content.
At courtship, pleasant jest and courtesy,
I left him well.
Who, after great Hostilius, here was king;
I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad
Faith, I will live so long as I may, that's the
Christian and heathen, must be be-lee'd and calm'd
His givings-out were of an infinite distance
I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
Did scowl on gentle Richard; no man cried 'God save him!'
As one that are best acquainted with her humour.
He will remain so.
Be cross with him; and I'll go fetch thy sons
O, ho! entreat her!
And give me mine again.
If you forsake the offer of their love.
Our sport shall be to take what they mistake:
Which he shall have: I'll pay the debt,
woolward for penance.
Mine shall not do his Julia so much wrong.
I am sprited with a fool.
I thank you, sir. Where then do you know best
[Aside]  I had forgot that foul conspiracy
This news distracts me!
O, good sir, tenderly, O!
Thou grievest my gall.
It will be pastime passing excellent,
To ROSALINE
A strain of rareness: and I grieve myself
That Caesar is more dangerous than he:
Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.
How will he triumph, leap and laugh at it!
may creep in here; and throw foul linen upon him, as
and our revolted wives share damnation together.
I held the sword, and he did run on it.
Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime;
till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the
And, if I fall not in my deep intent,
That robs thee of thy goodness! If thou dost
him read many lectures against it, and I thank God
Else would he never so demean himself.
Where fathom-line could never touch the ground,
Do their gay vestments his affections bait?
'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
Nor I.
O Lord, I must laugh!
So now, fair prince of Troy, I bid good night.
'Tis not sleepy business;
Does he not?
Or image of that horror?
To alter favour ever is to fear:
Nor how to use your brothers brotherly,
O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two
We arrest your word.
Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
I'll have the cudgel hallowed and hung o'er the
Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met: will you
Look, where he comes.
Mean you his majesty?
Of all rejoindure, forcibly prevents
Pardon, pardon!
Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.
charge nature,
Nor wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a sign,
Far truer spoke than meant: I lose, indeed;
Yield: come before my father. Light, ho, here!
Or this imperious man will work us all
Shapes faults that are not--that your wisdom yet,
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
Who shall not be more dear to my respect
Yield to our mercy, proud Plantagenet.
birding-pieces. Creep into the kiln-hole.
Than to drive liking to the name of love:
Ay, what else? fear you not her courage.
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
Exeunt
He swung about his head and cut the winds,
That the stretching of a span
Behold her topp'd?
And therefore little shall I grace my cause
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
It speaks against her with the other proofs.
there is remuneration; for the best ward of mine
Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days,
throat; that is not the matter I challenge thee for.'
What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps,
Arthur doth live; the king hath sent for you.
Where he himself was lost, Prospero his dukedom
Observe degree, priority and place,
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
Sluiced out his innocent soul through streams of blood:
yellowness, for the revolt of mine is dangerous:
I am as like to call thee so again,
Through the ashes of my chance: wert thou a man,
sick health!
I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the
Do get their children; but in this case of wooing,
Have you perused the letters from the pope,
Exeunt
As you that thus abuse me.
With all my heart; and, when you come ashore,
At pleasure here we lie near Orleans;
And useth it to patronage his theft.
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
Call in the messengers. As I am Egypt's queen,
your misery increase with your age! I say to you,
Whither I go, thither shall you go too;
heart to beat him,--
But wise men, folly-fall'n, quite taint their wit.
sooner knew the reason but they sought the remedy;
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Who hath he left behind him general?
The unkindest beast more kinder than mankind.
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some
'Aio te, AEacida, Romanos vincere posse.'
RICHARD
Come, come to me,
Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge?
I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
is done. Now, a song.
Will you hear this letter with attention?
Upon our fail? to this point hast thou heard him
Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here,
But I am weaker than a woman's tear,
Here is a man--but 'tis before his face;
Yea, as sure as I have a thought or a soul.
stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
Upon this business my appearance make
Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too.
Here, friend, 's another purse; in it a jewel
Must be thy subject, who in spite put stuff
Than he, and men, the earth, the heavens, and all:
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
From this world's thraldom to the joys of heaven.
fain hear some question 'tween you tway.
he is indeed Justice.
As who should say, if I should sleep or eat,
In cash most justly paid.
For me and my possessions she esteems not.
I have been long a sleeper; but, I hope,
Beshrew me but I love her heartily;
Give her this key, and tell her, in the desk
Tom's a-cold.
Further to boast were neither true nor modest,
See, see; here comes the man we went to seek.
Her faults will ne'er be known,
Enter FLAVIUS, with many bills in his hand
her; swore as many oaths as I spake words, and
Not to be over-ruled. Idle old man,
Of life at once untie: poor venomous fool
To IACHIMO
Increase your services; so seem as if
And then we'll try what these dastard Frenchmen dare.
As green as Ajax' and your brain so temper'd,
To see his nobleness!
These rural latches to his entrance open,
Cassio, my lord! No, sure, I cannot think it,
invincible spirit: but it shall be convenient,
Wish me partaker in thy happiness
The high promotion of his grace of Canterbury;
And that hereafter ages may behold
Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
Marcus, attend him in his ecstasy,
he would meet her, as he was appointed, next morning
It is.
believed, so; if not, let them that should reward
Do faithful homage and receive free honours:
The vantage of his anger.
Not within, sir.
How hard it is to hide the sparks of nature!
Is it possible?
Or I my life.
Heaven, from thy endless goodness, send prosperous
Why
They use to write it on the top of letters: 'twill
Methinks I play as I have seen them do
They must lie there: go carry them; and smear
have when you chid at Sir Proteus for going
way!
And overheard what you shall overhear,
How fiery and forward our pedant is!
To pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon,
Ay, marry, uncle; for I always thought
Take her, fair son, and from her blood raise up
Thou hast it now: king, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
Avaunt, thou damned door-keeper!
Exit
Will't please your mightiness to wash your hands?
Expecting absent friends. As thou lovest her,
I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers
With the ancient of war on our proceedings.
[Aside]  I would fain see this meeting.
Will wing me to some wither'd bough and there
They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness,
Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right,
As tidings of this sight.
Enter FALSTAFF, Host, BARDOLPH, NYM, PISTOL, and ROBIN
But to my mind, though I am native here
Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
We cannot, sir, we are undone already.
As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow
What, Curio?
soldier to cut his prisoner's throat. O, 'tis a
Come not near him. If thou wouldst not reside
Close by the ground, to hear our conference.
homewards. Good sir, go with us.
And to be doubted that your Moor and you
Fare you well, my lord.
Enter SIR RICHARD VERNON
What, is the king encamped?
O, where is faith? O, where is loyalty?
Singing
The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone;
came, saw, and overcame: he came, one; saw two;
A lean cheek, which you have not, a blue eye and
All but in that! Good wax, thy leave. Blest be
And let Sebastian wake.' Say, this were death
As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea;
Exit
That he shall shrink under my courtesy.
we shall drink down all unkindness.
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
For Antony is but a limb of Caesar:
Like poison given to work a great time after,
Your royal presences be ruled by me:
come to me and prings me pread and salt yesterday,
And ever and anon they made a doubt
The noblest; and do now not basely die,
To force a spotless virgin's chastity,
I think verily he had been hanged for't; sure as I
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, FERDINAND, GONZALO, and others
Mine ear is open and my heart prepared;
Good man, sit down. Now let me see the proudest
The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander,
The other, at high wish: best state, contentless,
have a fine hawk for the bush. Shall it be so?
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
Think death no hazard in this enterprise.
As to offend, himself being offended;
I shall have glory by this losing day
if there is any martial law in the world.
I will debate this matter at more leisure
the adventure, our crows shall fare the better
Young Arthur is my son, and he is lost:
For this was of much length,--the vile conclusion
All's done, my lord.
Such welcome and unwelcome things at once
Which is he?
Is, to determine of the coronation.
And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.
I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate.
Then should not we be tired with this ado.
Sir, the Germans desire to have three of your
O, had we never, never hunted there!--
True! pow, wow.
I ken the wight: he is of substance good.
Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give
heaven forgive my sins at the day of judgment!
Reigns solely in the breast of every man:
Peace to his soul, if God's good pleasure be!
I am very loath to be your idol, sir;
Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
My lord, my answer is--to Lancaster;
For we intend so to dispose you as
Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make,
You taught me but while-ere?
Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense,
Be one of those that think
walk with you, and so following, but I will not eat
Why I should yield to thee?
For following her affairs. Put in his legs.
Every good servant does not all commands:
fiends have been in poor Tom at once; of lust, as
Whom God preserve better than you would wish!--
Give but that portion which yourself proposed,
Nay, an you begin to rail on society once, I am
Get undescried.
Touch me not so near:
Enter LUCENTIO, HORTENSIO, and BIANCA
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
[Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the king?
Heart of our numbers, soul and only spirit.
O, my lord,
Not your gaoler, then,
Ay, by my beard, will we, for he's a proper man.
Here SALISBURY lifteth himself up and groans
Exeunt CLOTEN and First Lord
had a feigned letter of my master's
Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
suspicious;
Thou shamest to acknowledge me in misery.
To watch the fearful bending of thy knee,
Some two months hence up higher toward the north
be just! This is the letter he spoke of, which
Thou flatter'st misery.
Hey, Mountain, hey!
to change your mind.
That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
After new fancies: she, dying, gave it me;
Till then fair hope must hinder life's decay.
And in conclusion she shall watch all night:
mocked at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my
should he not be publicly shamed.
nor I cannot woo in festival terms.
To sing them too: when you do dance, I wish you
That I may turn me to each one of you,
That pure congealed white, high Taurus snow,
[Reads]  'With a trunk sleeve:'
Upon thy princely warrant, I descend
She that would be your wife now ran from you.
Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
Hostess, I forgive thee: go, make ready breakfast;
A' can carve too, and lisp: why, this is he
Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life.
You should have been respective and have kept it.
What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?
Are at their beads, 'tis hard to draw them thence,
Farewell. Come hither to me.
what hacks are on his helmet! look you yonder, do
Abroad? why then, women are more valiant
When you shall please to play the thieves for wives,
It reaches far, and where 'twill not extend,
Kills himself
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
Would for Carnarvonshire, although there long'd
Go, get you home, you fragments!
'Great Hector's sister did Achilles win,
To choose from forth the royal blood of France,
beguile the old pantaloon.
My lords, you speak your pleasures:
This day those enemies are put to death,
Sweet, do not scorn her so.
dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning; got with
I here engage my words.
John. A strange fish! Were I in England now,
No more evasion:
I have this present evening from my sister
have often noted in thy company, but I know not his name.
One eye thou hast, to look to heaven for grace:
Here comes Lorenzo: more of this hereafter.
Left his to the worthiest; so his successor
There is no more but so: say it is done,
We tread upon, and never think of it.
It is your music, madam, of the house.
My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind,
'Sblood, but you will not hear me:
Away with him! Who hath made this havoc with them?
Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate
years' health; in which time I will make a lip at
Pass.
Lament nor sorrow at; but please your thoughts
But both of you were vow'd Duke Humphrey's foes,
I am too perfect in; and, but for shame,
think my master is a kind of a knave: but that's
I wish ye sport.
SCENE I. A field near Frogmore.
To look like her are chimney-sweepers black.
We two in great amazedness will fly:
For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge?
For I have heard that she was there in place.
My lord chamberlain,
It is, my lord.
Exit AEdile
My sister may receive it much more worse,
sure of it. To express the like kindness, myself,
And leave me here in wretchedness behind ye?
The mighty gods defend thee! Thy lover,
But what said Jaques?
By my troth and maidenhead,
What a taking was he in when your husband asked who
Win upon power and throw forth greater themes
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
Begone, I say,
he fit for't, indeed.
Shalt feel our justice, in whose easiest passage
Shut door upon me, and so give me up
In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly:
Good night, good brother.
And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,
men, though it be the getting of children. Here
Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
For death remember'd should be like a mirror,
But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus.
The lady speaks again in Welsh
much honour, that thou wert not with me in this sweet
Faith, my lord,
coil at home: it is proved my Lady Hero hath been
That lord that counsell'd thee
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
late master's garments in thy possession?
Giving a letter
That heaven's vault should crack. She's gone for ever!
Besides, the fashion of the time is changed--
Be every man himself?
There's blood on thy face.
And it is meet I presently set forth.
The ne'er-yet-beaten horse of Parthia
That nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
Well, madam.
Ay, but not rough enough.
Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend
Exeunt
I never spake bad word, nor did ill turn
That two-fold balls and treble scepters carry:
Your reason?
Sir, the queen.
But as the fierce vexation of a dream.
Now, master Brook, you come to know what hath passed
For which I wait for money.
Well, I'll break in: go borrow me a crow.
As who, my lord?
When they pass back from the christening.
my horse to my mistress.
An if I do not, may my hands rot off
ACT II
Though palaces and pyramids do slope
He straight declined, droop'd, took it deeply,
Are you fair?
That our beat water brought by conduits hither;
Exeunt
As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby.
Not for because
That make such waste in brief mortality.
We took him setting of boys' copies.
Come, come; for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep
Then speak the truth by her; if not divine,
But did I never speak of all that time?
Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt; and would to God
Lady, a happy evening!
The gentle Thetis, and anon behold
SCENE IV. Camp of the YORK in Anjou.
Stay, go, do what you will, the like do I;
I will be very kind, and liberal
Near! why then, another time I'll hear thee:
conscience: and so I leave you.
And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady
And have not those soft parts of conversation
A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep
And your three motives to the battle, with
I have not sought the day of this dislike.
If I do wake, some planet strike me down,
But winter and rough weather.
When I did make thee free, sworest thou not then
Who with a body fill'd and vacant mind
And then hurl down their indignation
O sweetest, fairest lily!
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
A curse upon him, die he like a thief,
And what hope is that, I pray thee?
Didst thou not say he lied?
That he is open to incontinency;
Should not expel these inconveniences
Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer.
By whom I grant she lives. 'Tis now the time
More are men's ends mark'd than their lives before:
So, this was well ask'd,'twas so well perform'd.
Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia,
[To KING RICHARD III]
Good Monsieur Charles, what's the new news at the
the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk
What thou sayest?
she your jewel, this your jewel, and my gold are
Why should calamity be full of words?
Ay, do, do; thou sodden-witted lord! thou hast no
Come, come, no more of that.
Because in quarrel of the house of York
Enter the Ghost of CLARENCE
night fourscore ducats.
Make the Moor thank me, love me and reward me.
And I am sent to be revenged on him.
As you shall prove us, praise us.
I know not where he lodges, and for me to devise a
To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone;
Came to me, as I follow'd Henry's corse,
I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend.
Ah, let be, let be! thou art
ANTIPHOLUS
supposed distress of his: it will show honestly in
She hath betray'd me and shall die the death.
All wound with adders who with cloven tongues
The best and soundest of his time hath been but
will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be
Go in with us and see: we have an hour's talk with
Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Alban's shrine,
The voice again, or, like a gate of steel
To say 'not guilty:' mine integrity
The best she hath, and she, of all compounded,
The beggar's nurse and Caesar's.
What's the matter, woman?
Oppress'd with wrongs and therefore full of fears,
Will not this malice, Somerset, be left?
Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But, alack,
Contemn with mows the other; nor i' the judgment,
Ask me not what I know.
Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
Five summers have I spent in furthest Greece,
O seigneur! le jour est perdu, tout est perdu!
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
From camp to camp through the foul womb of night
Dost thou know her by my gazing on her, and yet
And were I any thing but what I am,
Enter LORENZO
May that ground gape and swallow me alive,
plague break thy neck for frightening me! What's
this, it shall seem to signify.
Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
As frankly as a pin.
[Aside]  This is a piece of malice. I am glad
O, sir, when he shall hear of your approach,
That none but I and my companion maid
Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way
A mother hourly coining plots, a wooer
Go take up these clothes here quickly. Where's the
I never long'd to hear a word till now;
For, look, he smiles, and Caesar doth not change.
Could deem his dignity?
Though I confess, on base and ground enough,
It shall not die.
Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
Beyond self-explication: put thyself
Away! they'll kill us.
[Aside]  If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
be.
SCENE I. A room in a castle.
And were you well advised?
And further he desires to know of you,
Because, forsooth, the king of Scots is crown'd.
Here's a villain!
embassage; and so I commit you--
Would try him to the utmost, had ye mean;
How will she love, when the rich golden shaft
no, no, this left shoe is my mother: nay, that
crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is
If you choose that wherein I am contain'd,
tempts me saying to me 'Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good
Re-enter the first Servingman
That gentleman of Buckingham's; in person
O lord archbishop,
As you are certainly a gentleman, thereto
Why, a horse.
Nor how to study for the people's welfare,
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
For interim to our studies shall relate
No bargains break that are not this day made:
What should I speak?
And, ten to one, old Joan had not gone out.
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
you killed a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord
Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.
Not to woo honour, but to wed it; when
Seek him, and bring him hither.
In humblest manner I require your highness,
I, sir, am Dromio; command him away.
For every honour sitting on his helm,
[Aside]  Well, heaven forgive him! and forgive us all!
Here's a good world! Knew you of this fair work?
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
But, that I'll give my voice on Richard's side,
'Tis pity love should be so contrary;
queen's lords.
I would he loved his wife: if he were honester
Should have him thus restrain'd.
Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and
Will raise us all.
Son of Polixenes, with his princess, she
Come on, you thick lipp'd slave, I'll bear you hence;
In mangled forms. O that I were a fool!
speciously one of them; Mistress Ford, good heart,
have strong arms too.
Kent from me, she hath lost her best man, and exhort
His company must do his minions grace,
Her knots disorder'd and her wholesome herbs
May do a noble deed! he brings me liberty.
were, I have acquainted you withal, to the end to
Don Pedro is approached.
And shall the same give pardon to a slave?
I never tempted her with word too large;
He did; myself did hear it.
Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood,
To part with unhack'd edges, and bear back
We shall have a rare letter from him: but you'll
And leave his navy gazing.
Unto our sister Bona.
'Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it.
Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy!
Whence, driven before the winds, he is arrived
Tell me thine first.
And then, in speaking, not to incur the last,
O Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry
Was never widow had so dear a loss!
Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
And the quaint mazes in the wanton green
My dagger in my mouth. Say what thou art,
Why, my negation hath no taste of madness.
DON
Exit
it is the stubbornest young fellow of France, full
Jerusalem, and crown her Queen of England ere the
Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed:
Whiles yet my soldiers are in my command;
And thence she cannot be convey'd away.
Thou being a goddess, I forswore not thee:
direct answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio
William of Windsor was the seventh and last.
Swoons
I dare and must deny it. Now I feel
base-string of humility. Sirrah, I am sworn brother
That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
I pray you, will you take him by the arm?
You may as well go stand upon the beach
Another way so high a hope that even
Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master:
The king himself in person is set forth,
Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:
Glad at the thing they scowl at.
What nearer debt in all humanity
No, no; when Fortune means to men most good,
Before the times of change, still is it so:
knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who
Give him all kindness: I had rather have
O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
in a book; he hath not eat paper, as it were; he
A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
ANTIPHOLUS
They have travell'd all the night? Mere fetches;
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
'Give me,' quoth I:
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol;
Peace, peace; be not so loud.
Do to this body what extremes you can;
enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman
To cry amen to that, thus we appear.
And strain their cheeks to idle merriment,
though I would not have it grow on my chin. Is thy
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh.
With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends;'
Re-enter two other Citizens
Harmoniously charmingly. May I be bold
Welsh plood out of your pody, I can tell you that:
Marry, your manhood now--
And ask remission for my folly past.
As rain to water, or devil to his dam.
And be you silent and attentive too,
Why dost thou look so sadly on my son?
Send quickly down to tame these vile offences,
Encounter such revolt.
Sure, all's effectless; yet nothing we'll omit
The enemy's in view; draw up your powers.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
O wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame?
They would not mark me, or if they did mark,
And of it left his son imperial lord.
If it prove
Content thee, prince; I will restore to thee
impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
Should ravish doters with a false aspect;
What, will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see
O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in
Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon:
That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,
broached, and beard thee too. Look on me well: I
look ill, Timon. Here's that which is too weak to
That, doting on his own obsequious bondage,
Find this grand liquor that hath gilded 'em?
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Yea, art thou there?
He tells you rightly.
Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels
And shape his service wholly to my hests
As those that feed grow full, as blossoming time
Hast thou tapp'd out and drunkenly caroused:
And follows so the ever-running year,
She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.
My haste is very great: farewell; hie home.
You wrong me more, sir, in denying it:
Troth, I think your other rabato were better.
Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
Here made by the Roman; great the answer be
everything that thou wilt have me.
Have glow'd like plated Mars, now bend, now turn,
By what? by any other house or person?
Since I first call'd my brother's father dad.
Whose breath, indeed, these hands have newly stopp'd:
one.
Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause,
Where I shall kneel to him that slew my father!
SCENE I. A church.
nated, or called, Don Adriano de Armado.
and there was he borne, under a hedge, for his
Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply
Exeunt
Dispatch, I say, and find the forester.
Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach
sure, they are bastards to the English; the French
Come, bring your luggage nobly on your back:
it as any man in England. You are afraid, if you see
Thou knowest not what it is.
It is war's prize to take all vantages;
I hear it by the way; but I will send:
The state and inclination of the day:
That gave't surmised shape. Why then, you princes,
Come, the gods have done their part in you.
the door: shall we be merry?
This is the greatest error of all the rest: the man
Come home to me, and I will wait for you.
By what we can, which can no more but fly.
Why pratest thou to thyself and answer'st not?
Of this new marriage with the Lady Grey?
The duty of the day: she looks us like
Ay, that's well known:
Dear lady,--
For I have loaden me with many spoils,
What secret hath held you here, that you followed
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
And such a welcome as I'd give to him
If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
Notorious wrong.
By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
You never saw her since she was deformed.
Marry, sir, he hath offended the law: and, sir, we
Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.
I know thee well; thou hast obtain'd thy suit:
Look'd he o' the inside of the paper?
Where should I lose my tongue?
[Aside]	The Duke of Milan
Exit CLARENCE, and SOMERSET follows
hand, Menas: if our eyes had authority, here they
of his country.
The very life-blood of our enterprise;
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Art avised o' that? more on 't.
That hast so long walk'd hand in hand with time:
You shall go see your pupils presently.
Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet
In this the madman justly chargeth them.
O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
fool, sweetest lady! By the world, I would not care
That you protect this course, and put it on
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
not what to say. We will give you sleepy drinks,
In such a one as, you consenting to't,
I have no power upon you; hers you are.
And, as I am an honest Puck,
Enter JESSICA, above, in boy's clothes
Or o' mine either?
They could not speak; and so I left them both,
recover him, I will help his ague. Come. Amen! I
What sayest thou, bully Bottom?
Enter IAGO and RODERIGO
To whom in all this presence speaks your grace?
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
For it is you that have chalk'd forth the way
Do not deny to him that you love me.
What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
Her feet were much too dainty for such tread!
Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,
O, no; he goes into Mauritania and takes away with
Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
Calls my lord?
Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it
Are not the speedy scouts return'd again,
Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
Is't possible?
This tractable obedience is a slave
Give me this maid, your daughter?
have I heard on o' the land, who never leave gaping
Looking before and after, gave us not
We will establish our estate upon
Have I here touch'd Sicilia and from him
Is come to lay his weary bones among ye;
it is done, thou art the pandar to her dishonour and
Into the abysm of hell. If he mislike
near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good
No, never such an oath; nor will not now.
I wrote to you
To the water side I must conduct your grace;
Overdone's own house, for here be many of her old
I will try thee. Tell me this: who begot thee?
Sweet, adieu. I'll keep my oath,
His heart-struck injuries.
What should he be?
In least speak most, to my capacity.
All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder;
He says his name is Master Fer.
Antonio, my father, is deceased;
Remember that you call on me to-day:
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
pitiful goers-between be called to the world's end
I would have stay'd till I had made you merry,
Which his hell-govern'd arm hath butchered!
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM and GLOUCESTER
My lovely Aaron, wherefore look'st thou sad,
That lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander,
M, O, A, I; this simulation is not as the former: and
What, art thou mad?
Agrippa further speak.
It is no matter-a ver dat: do not you tell-a me
Came to my tent, and cried on victory:
Are cast away and sunk on Goodwin Sands.
Enter EDGAR
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
For saying nothing; when, I am very sure,
Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
much in request, for the old women were all dead.
More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
AEdiles, seize him!
How lesser enmities may give way to greater.
O Lord, sir, 'tis a deed of policy:
Enter OTHELLO and IAGO
Presumptuous dame, ill-nurtured Eleanor,
Ah, froward Clarence! how evil it beseems thee
Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal.
Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care,
I wonder on't; he was wont to shine at seven.
All bond and privilege of nature, break!
Master, has my fellow Tranio stolen your clothes? Or
where's the chain? I pray you, let me see it.
Now, trust me, were it not against our laws,
Still and anon cheer'd up the heavy time,
Those things I bid you do, get them dispatch'd.
Upon the dull earth dwelling:
Am I this patient log--man.
affection in, it runs out.
never any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams
Re-enter FALSTAFF
Ay, and perhaps receive much honour by him.
Three thousand ducats; well.
But when he once attains the upmost round.
The revellers are entering, brother: make good room.
Not by a public minister of justice,
But in oblivion and hateful griefs.
The angry lords with all expedient haste.
On business to my brother Cassius.
Exeunt
I have done no harm. But I remember now
furred pack, she washes bucks here at home.
Good father cardinal, cry thou amen
Here come more.
Are they good?
Do not you fear: upon mine honour,
That Slender, though well landed, is an idiot;
Look, sir, I bleed.
No, sir, the worse.
You do ill to teach the child such words: he
Yea, the elect o' the land, who are assembled
Doth, like a miser, spoil his coat with scanting
My head with more ill news, for it is full.
Exit
To ANTONIO
And yet I would not sleep: merciful powers,
These cull'd and choice-drawn cavaliers to France?
Half the heart of Caesar, worthy Mecaenas! My
Was the hope drunk
For I have heard it said
A little of that worthy work perform'd
Bid them achieve me and then sell my bones.
'Tis almost morning; I would have thee gone:
Captain Jamy is a marvellous falourous gentleman,
ANTIPHOLUS
Tread on the sand; why, there you quickly sink:
Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not:
And linger not our sure destructions on!
Amen.
How Troy was burnt and he made miserable?
Charge him too coldly. Tell him, you are sure
To MONTANO, who is led off
Address their dangers in. Hector is gone:
Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage,
Determined of; how I must climb her window,
Dost thou desire her foully for those things
And the offender's life lies in the mercy
a beard of the general's cut and a horrid suit of
I see these witches are afraid of swords.
Make yourselves scabs?
[Within]  Open the door, secure, foolhardy king:
desire to lay my bones there. Besides, the penitent
To say the dead are well: bring it to that,
I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap,
Who is it that can tell me who I am?
In your retirement, I had swinged him soundly.
skill. Good cousin, have a care this busy time.
What's her name in the cap?
lady within?
Kissing her
Ha, ha, ha! So, you're paid.
Take heed you fall not.
But, ere I go, Hastings and Montague,
Now much beshrew my manners and my pride,
any man of quality,--I hope to be saved.
surgere,' thou know'st,--
We are come to you to do a good office, master parson.
in the city? are they so followed?
But there's no goodness in thy face: if Antony
All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
Titus, I am incorporate in Rome,
Your valour puts well forth: pray, follow.
Down, ladies; let us shame him with our knees.
Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder.
Thus would I eat it.
I'll prove mine honour and mine honesty
Adjudged an olive branch and laurel crown,
This bold bad man.
Villains!
The imaginary relish is so sweet
Long live the king!
The devil himself.
Be to thy person, noble father-in-law!
He's in the right. Constable, what say you to it?
By some sly trick blunt Thurio's dull proceeding.
A place next to the king.
The commonwealth doth stand, and so would do,
Of your commissions.
Proves valueless: you are forsworn, forsworn;
It will not be accepted, on my life:
In such another trick. Go bring the rabble,
By any desperate change: my more particular,
He dies.
Now, sir, how do you find the prisoner?
But shall we wear these honours for a day?
This is the very painting of your fear:
What seest thou?
What's your pleasure, sir?
So the were bleeding-new, my lord, there's no meat
basin and ewer to-night. Flaminius, honest
To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
It might, my lord.
Are you content to be our general?
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
So may you lose your arms:
Away before me to sweet beds of flowers:
Lingering perdition, worse than any death
What we can do, we'll do, to do you service.
So stale and cheap to vulgar company,
And bear it to the chapel.
First were we sad, fearing you would not come;
Old fashions please me best; I am not so nice,
And consequently thy rude hand to act
He sent to me, sir,--Here he comes.
Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard;
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
more since.
You are transported by calamity
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
Please it this matron and this gentle maid
Hence, therefore, every leader to his charge;
No honourable trust. I have done ill;
Though in your state of honour I am perfect.
Away! we'll none on 't: here has been too much
won the bridge, killing all those that withstand
Who play they to?
maintained all by helping Baptista's eldest daughter
I'll not have it so.
Here comes my son Aumerle.
By their increase, now knows not which is which:
To whisper Wolsey,--here makes visitation:
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war,
His better doth not breathe upon the earth.
We shall be short in our provision:
Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
Nor I.
And knowing what I am, I know what she shall be.
When he demean'd himself rough, rude and wildly.
You shall become true liegemen to his crown:
If that thy master would gain by thee,
best breed in the north. When they were ready to
There's place and means for every man alive.
The pretty-vaulting sea refused to drown me,
O thou, the earthly author of my blood,
A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.
And find not her whom thou pursuest. Flow, flow,
The wisdom of your duty, fair Bianca,
Say you the like to him?
Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and Messenger
Verily!
Dispatch it presently; the hour draws on
What hath been cannot be: who ever strove
Brave Burgundy, undoubted hope of France!
And wring the awful sceptre from his fist,
Unto a ragged fearful-hanging rock
Shall we refresh us, sir, upon your shore,
That is no fleering tell-tale. Hold, my hand:
Against the irregular and wild Glendower,
On Athens, ripe for stroke! Thou cold sciatica,
Edward will always bear himself as king:
That I was cast: and even but now he spake,
Enter MARCUS
Sitting down with them
lady, dart thy skill at me;
prove a good soldier-breeder: shall not thou and I,
too loud, or tainting his discipline; or from what
Because you are not sad. Now, by two-headed Janus,
Marry, before your ladyship, I grant,
And that's not suddenly to be perform'd,
'Murder!'
At length her grace rose, and with modest paces
The empress, the midwife, and yourself:
Varro's
enough, if we know we are the kings subjects: if
I hinder you too long: good night, Sir Thomas.
How the world goes, that to the pace of it
And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
What's his name?
So please you, it is true: our thane is coming:
Would he were here! to all, and him, we thirst,
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
And in the breath of bitter words let's smother
lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to
I am far better born than is the king,
GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
Tush, my good lord, this superficial tale
Enter MALCOLM and DONALBAIN
remembered. My clown, who wants but something to
Amen, with all my heart!
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
What does he say of Brutus?
'The fiend, the fiend:' he led me to that place.
which you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
Richard Plantagenet, my friend, is he come?
And who shines now but Henry's enemies?
As I would do the gods. But, O thou tyrant!
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
My Lord of Burgundy, we'll take your oath,
Whose title they admit, Arthur's or John's.
Of all professors else, make proselytes
I have taught him, even as one would say precisely,
And now changed to 'The Beggar and the King.'
And threw it towards thy land: the sea received it,
The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long.
Or if you cannot weep, yet give some groans,
Shall cross the seas, and bid false Edward battle;
O lady Fortune,
Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger.
As will displease you. My Lord Northumberland,
Made me a counterfeit: yet my mother seem'd
Lies heavy on me; O, my heart is sick!
SCENE I. The French King's pavilion.
Exeunt
He thinks he still is at his instrument.
But now he parted hence, to embark for Milan.
Duchess of Norfolk, and Lady Marquess Dorset: will
you now to your gossip-like humour: you break jests
You, my lords,
right, because he hath not the gift to woo in other
One sudden foil shall never breed distrust.
And cannot passionate our tenfold grief
That thought them sure of you.
It is to be recovered: but that the merit of
To trouble and disturb the king and us?
For more is to be said and to be done
That shake us nightly: better be with the dead,
younger brothers, revolted tapsters and ostlers
Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
Enter a Messenger
Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth,
To set my brother Clarence and the king
Quiet and gentle thy conditions! for
were, and I by him, at all adventures, so we were quit here.
But by your voices, will not so permit me;
To carry into Flanders the great seal.
O, pardon! since a crooked figure may
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?
Is this the alliance that he seeks with France?
And truly, as I hope to live.
Nay, good, be patient.
If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
bluntly: that which ordinary men are fit for, I am
I mean our preservation, few in millions
Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise
Exit JULIA
I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage; and,
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up,
That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
And sack great Rome with Romans.
Should he sit here? This act persuades me
I would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
Were, on the quarry of these murder'd deer,
I shall despair. There is no creature loves me;
Commencing in a truth? I am thane of Cawdor:
What's your will, father
My lord, your promise for the earldom,--
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
And yet I come not well.
That there's no hoped-for mercy with the brothers
According to the phrase or the addition
that infirm and choleric years bring with them.
like a malecontent; to relish a love-song, like a
How some men creep in skittish fortune's hall,
My lord, for aught I know.
Making that idiot, laughter, keep men's eyes
Stands Scotland where it did?
And let us all to meditation.
Shall not behold her face at ample view;
He was most princely: ever witness for him
Reply not in how many fathoms deep
Day serves not light more faithful than I'll be.
By'r lady, I think it be so.
Content, i' faith: I'll seal to such a bond
Garnish'd like him, that for a tricksy word
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
He owes nine thousand; besides my former sum,
But when you are well pleased.
Cousins, a word, I pray you.
Now, for this night, let's harbour here in York;
Your worship was the last man in our mouths.
Would this report become? But I consider,
My lord, I aim a mile beyond the moon;
[Aside]  Ay, by my faith, the field is honourable;
The king's disease--my project may deceive me,
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
paths our very petticoats will catch them.
And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate.
for the nonce, to immask our noted outward garments.
To seek him here that means not to be found.
And do you tell me of a woman's tongue,
No contraries hold more antipathy
Take you your instrument, play you the whiles;
But come, I'll tell thee all my whole device
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
have received my proportion, like the prodigious
Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
which should
By this means shall we sound what skill she hath.
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
Heaven make you better than your thoughts!
So you were a knave at his service, indeed.
Shall top the legitimate. I grow; I prosper:
Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword
Exit
How low am I? I am not yet so low
true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the
I did.
There is a devilish mercy in the judge,
a merry hour.
The king my father gave you such a ring.
Let me see, then.
Pay him the due of honey-tongued Boyet.
The credit that thy lady hath of thee
My poverty, but not my will, consents.
Gentlemen.
And for my tidings gave me twenty kisses.
tale, when th' other's come to't. Hector shall not
Till then in blood by noble Percy lie.
SCENE IV. Country near Birnam wood.
How show'd his tasking? seem'd it in contempt?
A custard-coffin, a bauble, a silken pie:
Show me this piece. I am joyful of your sights.
Enter BEATRICE
Is creeping toward me; how far off, how near;
Although we fancy not the cardinal,
And I am faint and cannot fly their fury:
Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
Think'st thou I jest? Hold, take thou that, and that.
Thy favour's good enough. Some jay of Italy
If I did think, sir, I were well awake,
I doubt not but his friends will fly to us.
Only be patient till we have appeased
If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot
The Briton reveller.
ACT IV
lief Helen's golden tongue had commended Troilus for
No, yonder 'tis;
ACT III
Or one that, at a triumph having vow'd
Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen; indeed, of all.
DON
Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now here
You can do better yet; but this is meetly.
Give me a taper! call up all my people!
Giving her DESDEMONA's handkerchief
Ladies, withdraw: the gallants are at hand.
An emperor in Rome thus overborne,
Meets with Lord Harry: and, I fear, Sir Michael,
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
I know her spirits are as coy and wild
Tribunes, I thank you: and this suit I make,
He used as creatures of another place
This lion is a very fox for his valour.
Unarm, unarm, and do not fight to-day.
They laughed not so much at the hair as at his pretty answer.
In that vast tennis-court, have made the ball
Orlando doth commend him to you both,
Reverend appearer, no;
And furbish new the name of John a Gaunt,
As I will watch the aim, or to find both
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You are too cold.
had been thoroughly moved, you should have heard him
give express charge, that in our marches through the
draught above heat makes him a fool; the second mads
Enter SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and an AEdile
heart-strings.
Take heed, be wary how you place your words;
Why, very well, then; I hope here be truths.
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to
So, weeping, smiling, greet I thee, my earth,
On Thurio, whom your gentle daughter hates;
To him had left it solely.
Caesar made here; but made not here his brag
I will be found most cunning in my patience;
I warrant you, madam.
And yet herein I judge mine own wit good--
Could trammel up the consequence, and catch
siege is given, is altogether directed by an
Come, bid me do any thing for thee.
Black men are pearls in beauteous ladies' eyes.
As, to seek through the regions of the earth
Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
Be of good cheer: mother, how fares your grace?
Stand close up, or I'll make your head ache.
Good Sir John, I sue for yours: not to charge you;
No; I rather added
And what obscured in this fair volume lies
Strike up the drum; cry 'Courage!' and away.
Hath raised in Gallia have arrived our coast
And I, as sure as English Henry lives
My friend when he must need me. I do know him
Video, et gaudeo.
The moon! the sun: it is not moonlight now.
O, then began the tempest to my soul,
Good uncle, I beseech you, on my knees! beseech you,
One of them showed me a ring that he had of your
We hold our town for neither, yet for both.
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano;
Or that I do not yet, and ever did.
have sufferd all this. My suit then is desperate;
For mercy to his country. Therefore, let's hence,
Let me see--about Michaelmas next I shall be--
Ariel and all his quality.
'Tis Aufidius,
Not so, sir; under correction, sir; I hope it is not so.
Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!
Come on, then; wear the favours most in sight.
Set in a note-book, learn'd, and conn'd by rote,
Sitting down by her
If the king please; his curses and his blessings
Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,
he might know none of his secrets: now do I see he
To scourge you for this apprehension:
Do you the office, friar; which consummate,
Offering him a root
these days. The king has killed his heart. Good
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Not weighing well the end; if ever fearful
If seriously I may convey my thoughts
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
[Aside to DONALBAIN]  Why do we hold our tongues,
Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse
Must ask my child forgiveness!
May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune
so conclusions passed the careires.
A great sign, sir, that he will look sad.
Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
Our Perdita is found.
I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
They fight; TYBALT falls
Hark Tamora, the empress of my soul,
It would become me better than to close
It stands your grace upon to do him right.
How now! back, friends! Shepherd, go off a little.
Shalt have the air at freedom: for a little
either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO'S house
Be call'd your vanquisher.
Nor none can know, Leonine being gone.
First kiss me, Kate, and we will.
general dependants as in the duke himself also and
Exit GLENDOWER
I love the king your father, and yourself,
O, let me kiss that hand!
Will put thy shirt on warm? will these moss'd trees,
Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul;
Put up thy gold: go on,--here's gold,--go on;
their damnation than he was before guilty of those
The Count Melun is slain; the English lords
pridge: I can tell your majesty, the duke is a
'Tis but fortune; all is fortune. Maria once told
Whose star-like nobleness gave life and influence
Hear sweet discourse, converse with noblemen.
Which he confesseth to be manifold,
Was by the rude hands of that Welshman taken,
In graces and in qualities of breeding;
He is fled, my lord, and all his powers do yield;
Pitchers have ears, and I have many servants:
I'll pay thy pleasure then.
Ay, Greek, that is my name.
Being now seen possible enough, got credit,
From famous Edmund Langley, Duke of York,
Why of thy thought, Iago?
Swears he will shoot no more but play with sparrows
No? why, 'tis a plain case: he that went, like a
Re-enter Clown
Doth ravish like enchanting harmony;
She is corrupted, changed and won from thee;
They never then had sprung like summer flies;
child or pupil, undertake your ben venuto; where I
By the consent of all, we were establish'd
prove an ass.
An argument that he is pluck'd, when hither
For when the noble Caesar saw him stab,
I warrant you, madam, we wil l make that sure.
Exeunt
As friendship wears at feasts, keep with Bohemia
What!
What joy is joy, if Silvia be not by?
no money of me; but being enthralled as I am, it
Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir,
Spits in the face of heaven, is no bar
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
though I say it, is an honest exceeding poor man
By me invested, he compeers the best.
twenty lascivious turtles ere one chaste man.
And a thousand vagram posies.
We will bestow ourselves.
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
you'll give him me. Be true to my lord: if he
A valiant and most expert gentleman. Would it were
What's o'clock, Francis?
Thy word is current with him for my death,
More than the infant that is born to-night
Our means secure us, and our mere defects
son,
Go, seek him: tell him I would speak with him.
No; 'tis hereafter to know, but now to promise: do
Not as a groom: there's some of ye, I see,
As I am now unhappy; which is more
Come, sir, I know what I know.
That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour?
Who can be patient in such extremes?
mornings; what should that bode?
And that within ourselves we disagree,
Deserved much less advancement.
When evil deeds have their permissive pass
The advantage of the time prompts me aloud
Wilt thou destroy him then?
And their most reverend heads dash'd to the walls,
wing. Therefore when he sees reason of fears, as we
Five shillings to one on't, with any man that knows
And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes:
parting. Nay, I'll show you the manner of it. This
The clergy in example.
And charge us there upon inter'gatories,
Was theme for you, you were the word of war.
Thy other banish'd son, with this dear sight
Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts
Romeo!
Devise strange deaths for small offences done?
Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
I'll go along with you.
far, would have made nature immortal, and death
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
Nay, but do so, then: and, look you, he may come and
So many miseries have crazed my voice,
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
For England!
Nay, Sir Nicholas,
And, if though canst for blushing, view this face,
French earl: the honour of a maid is her name; and
are to me nothing, so in nothing bless them, and to
leave to in the crop; if I be his cuckold, he's my
And venture maidenhead for't; and so would you,
With a true heart
creditor but it; of what's past, is, and to come,
Ay, but if it prove true, Master Page, have you any
In doing courtesies, and one in whom
Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season,
And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks
As is the morn-dew on the myrtle-leaf
O, ho, monster! we know what belongs to a frippery.
For no dislike i' the world against the person
For he is bound to sea and stays but for it.
Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the
If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trash
Thou out of heaven's benediction comest
Ha, ha! what a fool Honesty is! and Trust, his
though I be but the prince of Wales, yet I am king
chiding than a great deal of heart-break.
And as a stranger to my heart and me
For corn at their own rates; whereof, they say,
Exeunt
The handmaids of all women, or, more truly,
Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.
he'll smile and take't for a great favour.
Unto thy value I will mount myself
I cannot hear of any that did see her.
Fetch me a better answer.
Away! let's go learn the truth of it.
The riches of it: do his bidding; strike
Ready, so please your grace.
With tearful eyes add water to the sea
Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd
Or else break out in peevish jealousies,
A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,
prosperity! Affliction may one day smile again; and
otherwise, for your ill opinion and the assault you
years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend
It is against my heart.
Equality of two domestic powers
An if what pleases him shall pleasure you.
Against my soul's pure truth why labour you
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
for she shall not live: no, my heart is turned to
I come to know what prisoners thou hast ta'en
That clogs me with this answer.'
Thou great, and wise, to hear Ulysses speak.
Poison, or fire, or suffocating streams,
Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her; and her
We made each other but so late ago.
Thou art not for the fashion of these times,
Indeed! ay, indeed: discern'st thou aught in that?
What time o' day is't, Apemantus?
On your attendance, my lord; here.
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
seven-night; and a time too brief, too, to have all
It is impossible that I should die
Exeunt
Might you not know she would do as she has done,
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
For my affection.
These three,
Both more and less have given him the revolt,
I did not think the king so stored with friends.
Pray thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look,
Would all themselves laugh mortal.
Yea, if he said my ring was copper.
We shall hear music, wit and oracle.
Then he disdains to shine; for by the book
In special business from his holiness.
My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,
Exit above
That labour, sir. All's now done, but the ceremony
Or else my heart concealing it will break,
Of that most delicate lodging: by my life,
Re-enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR and all his train marching
Do you withdraw yourself a little while,
Be you and I behind an arras then;
What is the news i' the court?
God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death
That paragons description and wild fame;
Young Bertram.
Enter LUCIO
as any man in Illyria.
Thus both are gone with conscience and remorse;
To be her men and wear her livery:
To let him spend his time no more at home,
Would one day stamp upon me: 't has been done;
My heart as great, my reason haply more,
No more light answers. Let our officers
Bring thou the master to the citadel;
The best feather of our wing--have mingled sums
On the complaint o' the tenants: take good heed
Of Dun Adramadio, Dun Adramadio.
But that I cannot do ten thousand more.
You hear, Count Claudio: I can be secret as a dumb
Praised be God, and not our strength, for it!
with a distempered appetite. To be generous,
Talk you of killing?
'Faith, and I'll send him packing.
And find no harbour in a royal heart.
What seest thou in me, York? why dost thou pause?
Exeunt
Bores through his castle wall, and farewell king!
I dream'd a dream to-night.
I have been to you a true and humble wife,
Asses.
When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
I will knead him; I'll make him supple.
Quiet thy cudgel; thou dost see I eat.
Of noisome musty chaff: he said 'twas folly,
Hath with the king's blood stain'd the king's own land.
Wounds IAGO
In nature's infinite book of secrecy
Are you there, butcher? O, I cannot speak!
And much different from the man he was;
Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain?
As sure I think did never man love so--
And we will both together to the Tower,
To ALBANY
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
What relish is in this? how runs the stream?
What then remains, we being thus arrived
Cousin, all honour to thee!
If thy rare qualities, sweet gentleness,
I'll make him find him: do this suddenly,
Exit MALVOLIO
Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
If he be dead, brave Talbot, then adieu!
Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt
My lord, he fears you mean no good to him.
I am solicited, not by a few,
Exeunt
Is nobler than attending for a cheque,
Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors?
'Faith, I must; she'll rail in the street else.
O, sir, you must: and therefore I beseech you
question him yourself.
These are the youths that thunder at a playhouse,
Is worth of consuls, senators, patricians,
For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure;
Strike off this score of absence. Sweet Bianca,
Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
Enter his chamber, view his breathless corpse,
Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
Adieu. I love not the humour of bread and cheese,
In such a night
Do thou so much as dig the grave for him:
In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
The duke himself, and the magnificoes
Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.
Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,
My lord, this is a fond and desperate creature,
It is a kind of history.
Rid all the sea of pirates; then, to send
Immediately to marry: she hath consented: Now, sir,
What thou seest when thou dost wake,
When turtles tread, and rooks, and daws,
What's o'clock, think you?
Be quiet, or--More light, more light! For shame!
Buys herself bread and clothes: it is a creature
I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's
I say I love thee more than he can do.
Deaf'd with the clamours of their own dear groans,
Let not my sister read it in your eye;
I crave their pardons:
to meet you on the way, and kiss your hand,
Caesar, thou art revenged,
I'll be revenged on the whole pack of you.
That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick
Send for the lady to the Sagittary,
Where is he?
come forth?
O master, if you did but hear the pedlar at the
Enter Servant
All the occurrence of my fortune since
How come these staggers on me?
And true she is, as she hath proved herself,
But in your daughter's womb I bury them:
To know our further pleasure in this case,
wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy
An if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.
That he spake to thee?
fire-shovel: I knew by that piece of service the
What you have done hath not offended me;
All his in dedication; for his sake
Of thrice three times the value of this bond.
Do not throw from you: and you, my lords, farewell:
Lo, there thou stand'st, a breathing valiant man,
What, what? Nay, then I must have an ounce or two
Myself disposed to sleep.
That he may bless this bay with his tall ship,
and all the madness is, he cheers them up too.
Captive to thee and to thy Roman yoke,
Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter
Thou hast been rightly honest;--so hast thou;--
The people's hearts, and wean them from themselves.
Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
[Aside]  How like a dream is this I see and hear!
We stand up peerless.
Tendering the precious safety of my prince,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?
serving-man a fresh tapster. Go; adieu.
The fortress of it; for better might we
Marry, that did I.
Her opulent throne with kingdoms; all the east,
Why, after I have cut the egg i' the middle, and eat
Beware the ides of March.
You here at Milford-Haven with your ships:
Strike, fellows, strike; this is the man I seek.
that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?
hath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devil
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and two or three Lords, like foresters
A weak bond holds you: I'll not trust your word.
I will consider; what you have to say
Your tongue, though but bastards and syllables
your worship. Mistress Page hath her hearty
If not denounced against us, why should not we
Then, brother John of Lancaster, to you
One foot in sea and one on shore,
O the pernicious caitiff!
May pass into the presence of a king,
Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
Enter MACBETH
As oft it loses all: I will be gone;
Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all
How was this seal'd?
Of teaching and of learning instantly.
He slily stole away and left his men:
Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
We have dispatch'd the duke, as he commanded.
Did I not, fellow?
As't please your lordship: I'll leave you.
Drink some wine ere you go: fare you well.
Some way to leave him.
That first that ever touch'd him--he was carried
I mean your malice, know, officious lords,
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
The Duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the
This says she now when she is beginning to write to
I should my tears let fall upon your cheek,
And shall, albeit sweet music issues thence.
And when that we have dash'd them to the ground,
Do this, and be a charitable murderer.
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
I would the fool were married to her grave!
Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
Lord mayor,--
As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.
Omission to do what is necessary
all my trumpery; not a counterfeit stone, not a
If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
Were it to woo my daughter; for it seems
Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
Then imitate the action of the tiger;
Say there be;
Putting a bracelet upon her arm
No blame belongs to thee.
Having a son and friends; since Julius Caesar,
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
Surrey, thou liest.
It will not speak; then I will follow it.
delightful ostentation, or show, or pageant, or
ACT IV
Not wake him in his slumber. A beggar's book
I am as I have spoken.
And, in this resolution, I defy thee;
That were the cause of my imprisonment.
To entertain't so merrily with a fool.
Am I the master here, or you? go to.
Enter DUKE OF YORK, attended
Dies
In what have I offended you? what cause
If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean
He would not then have touch'd them for his life!
Enter an AEdile
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
Nor hold him up with hopes; I am not for him:
O, what a sympathy of woe is this,
Knocks
You were disguised.
Were you a woman, youth,
Of him that hears it, never in the tongue
That cropp'd the golden prime of this sweet prince,
To RICHMOND
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
Enter two Soldiers to their guard
Who's there? my Lord AEneas! By my troth,
So long a breeding as his white beard came to,
That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.
continually; 'tis her command.
To seek a living in our territory.
Yea, mistress, are you so peremptory?
Remember since you owed no more to time
What was the second noise for?
Was not the Duke of Orleans thy foe?
What stature is she of?
Prizes of accident as oft as merit:
What I have said to you.
I had an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
Bring him forth: has sat i' the stocks all night,
Why, as men do a-land; the great ones eat up the
I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money,
Safe-conducting the rebels from their ships!
Ay, but not yet to die.
I do entreat you, not a man depart,
If Time be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way,
Which modern lamentations might have moved?
See here in bloody lines I have set down;
Though now this grained face of mine be hid
A sin prevailing much in youthful men,
Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
in his own chamber--I mean, the lines of my body are
And it in you more dreadful would have seem'd
Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh;
So much by weight hate I her Diomed:
Safer than mine own two, more dear; I have so;
that we may yet again have access to our fair
Who finds her, give her burying;
sleeve of Troy there in his helm: I would fain see
SCENE V. The same. A street near the gate.
Great Jupiter be praised! Lucius is taken.
Throws down a letter
As heaven had lent her all his grace;
Re-enter TYBALT
As merry as you will.
ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.
Within the arras: when I strike my foot
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
And so repose, sweet gold, for their unrest
Tyrants themselves wept when it was reported.
The queen of earthly queens: she's noble born;
She's coming; to her, coz. O boy, thou hadst a father!
I cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon.
So young, my lord, and true.
Prithee, nuncle, be contented; 'tis a naughty night
But if you do refuse to marry me,
And quench'd the stelled fires:
This is not much.
If they should speak, would almost damn those ears,
After his brother: and importuned me
With unchaste purpose and with oath to violate
Swifter than the wandering moon.
Fair Lord AEneas, let me touch your hand;
Can hold it up: here I and sorrows sit;
Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; and
You fillip me o' the head.
And whispers to his pillow, as to him,
Weak men must fall, for heaven still guards the right.
Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
The king shall be contented: must he lose
Enter PROTEUS
How much unlook'd for is this expedition!
And say there is no sin but to be rich;
Caesar's ambition,
But there is come a messenger before,
valiant Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector
Your faithful subject I, a gentleman
You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
The hand of death hath raught him.
that wise men have makes a great show. Here comes
His head by nature framed to wear a crown,
Of what lies heavy to't.
The appetite may sicken, and so die.
I pray you, mar no more trees with writing
the curses he shall have, the tortures he shall
Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am:
O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
Hold amity? 'Tis hard; almost impossible.
The power of Caesar, and
The Welshmen are dispersed, and Salisbury
Like little body with a mighty heart,
An't please your grace, Sir Thomas Bullen's daughter--
Down with him, thief!
And never to let Beatrice know of it.
What is the matter?
me to the coming on of time, with 'Hail, king that
Let her lie still and dream.
[To NORFOLK and SUFFOLK]
Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
In fortune's love; for then the bold and coward,
And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir:
Ten years are spent since first he undertook
A march afar off
One that, in all obedience, makes the church
They do abuse the king that flatter him:
Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?
One of these two must be necessities,
Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd
That dreamers often lie.
For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
The apprehension of his present portance,
But by his mother was perforce withheld.
My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears,
Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with me.
But taken and impounded as a stray
Others, like merchants, venture trade abroad,
Come, officer; as loud as e'er thou canst,
Makes merit her election, and doth boil,
You call'd me dog; and for these courtesies
Where mine his thoughts did kindle,--that our stars,
Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
And we cast away moan:
Exeunt
In yours they will, in you all hopes are lost.
Enter LE BEAU
Enter KING HENRY VIII, reading of a schedule, and LOVELL
The senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased
Frighted each other? why should he follow?
We'ld jump the life to come. But in these cases
Show me, my women, like a queen: go fetch
brother die by the law than my son should be
Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
The Breton navy is dispersed by tempest:
But darkness and the gloomy shade of death
And his comrades, that daff'd the world aside,
Say, if my father render fair return,
tricks upon's with savages and men of Ind, ha? I
affection to congratulate the princess at her
Sweet honey and sweet notes together fail.
But judge you as you are? O, think on that;
I'll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders
It is spoke freely out of many mouths--
This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet: he begins
And how she was beguiled and surprised,
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
Till, like a boy, you see him cringe his face,
To Saint Jaques le Grand.
Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet.
And not the punishment. Therefore indeed, my father,
And hold thee to my heart.
Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more,
you may speak as small as you will.
And ripen justice in this commonweal:
Indeed, Sir John, you said so.
Away towards Salisbury! while we reason here,
Commanded always by the greater gust;
A servant grafted in my serious trust
Before the time be out? no more!
Why art thou patient, man? thou shouldst be mad;
From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate.
Like to the time o' the year between the extremes
calling. But here comes Boult.
To melt the city leads upon your pates,
Should be infused with so foul a spirit!
Is't not your trick?
I believe you;
We will be satisfied; let us be satisfied.
truth, nor honesty in this bosom of thine; it is all
That in the sty of this most bloody boar
Cunning in music and the mathematics,
go follow them to prison:
Your way is shorter;
'scape.
By man's oppression; and the poor worm doth die for't.
To-morrow; to-day; presently; you shall have the
Discomfort swells. Mark, king of Scotland, mark:
We will make amends ere long;
Brief, he must hence depart to Tyre:
A horse and a man
I left out one thing which the queen confess'd.
And wears upon his baby-brow the round
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not
That I crave death more willingly than mercy;
'twere more honour some were away.
[Aside]  He should give her interest and she gives it him.
Then tell us, shall your city call us lord,
And lies, and lies: there is my bond of faith,
There's not a hollow cave or lurking-place,
Goodly and gallant shall be false and perjured
SCENE II. The same.
hose? What did he when thou sawest him? What said
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
this from me, I count it one of my greatest
I find it still, when I have list to sleep:
By sight of what I have, your noble company.
With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
With nothing trembles: at some thing it grieves,
On capital treason; and, in thine attaint,
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Over the king in's tongue.
There is no stir or walking in the streets;
On one and other side, Trojan and Greek,
The business of the state does him offence,
We do not act that often jest and laugh;
My lord, I scarce have leisure to salute you,
In this I do not call your faith in question
And mine, I promise you; were't not for shame,
Your sword is bright, sir; put it up again.
A short alarum; then enter the town with soldiers
Sir, you are very welcome to our house:
Is't possible?
I cannot sing: I'll weep, and word it with thee;
For private faults in them.
To the greater bench: in a rebellion,
Here comes another troop to seek for you.
His answer was, the people were not wont
'Tis in grain, sir; 'twill endure wind and weather.
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
And pass my daughter a sufficient dower,
Exit
SCENE II. Another part of the wood.
And the conjunction of our inward souls
in the army of any sort.
Is it so nominated in the bond?
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
It would have much amazed you.
an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities, there
withered pears, it looks ill, it eats drily; marry,
No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a
Come, Desdemona: 'tis the soldiers' life
What he requests of us. Good Diomed,
Good morrow to thee; welcome:
liberte, le franchisement.
well for her.
thousands in a trice: you have no true debitor and
I cannot tell; I fear 'tis choleric.
O that I thought it could be in a woman--
Are stored with corn to make your needy bread,
Than those she placeth highest! So, farewell.
To Servant
Thou wast that did preserve me. Thou didst smile.
Northumberland, then present, wept to see it.
But, Katharine, what was sent to you from fair Dumain?
In any honest suit: she's framed as fruitful
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Enter DON JOHN
Alack, I am afraid they have awaked,
And dares him to set forward to the fight.
Only look up clear;
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
But, if there be, or ever were, one such,
This king were great, his greatness was no guard
This butcher's cur is venom-mouth'd, and I
If you will take a homely man's advice,
palaces, treason; and the bond cracked 'twixt son
Here comes himself to guide you.
These are my mates, that make their wills their law,
He calls for the tortures: what will you say
While I was speaking, oft was fasten'd to't.
My lord, you give me most egregious indignity.
By sending me a letter? Read it again.
Marry, my lord, lest, by a multitude,
This harness'd masque and unadvised revel,
I will prove it legitimate, sir, upon the oaths of
Found there rich jewels; recover'd her, and placed her
No harm: what more?
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
Apollo, pardon
Spoke with the king and have procured his leave
Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee, dispatch:
Love thee as our commander and our king.
The last true duties of thy noble son!
Be stirring as the time; be fire with fire;
On some odd time of his infirmity,
To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces,
And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending.
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow,
entertainment.
Out of the king's protection. This is my charge.
In a new channel, fair and evenly;
Just, just; and the men do sympathize with the
teacher. An the indentures be drawn, I'll away
His pleasure; may be he will relent. Alas,
Our people quarrel with obedience,
Then, madam, stand resolved, but hope withal
That can be with a nimble galliard won;
cheese, Nestor, and that same dog-fox, Ulysses, is
If that his head have ear in music,--doubtless
arras; and there heard it agreed upon that the
As the remembrance of an idle gaud
Now let hot AEtna cool in Sicily,
And wilt not come? Come, recreant; come, thou child;
Pink for flower.
With such a graceful courtesy deliver'd?
What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?
And drink it off; and, if you had the strength
The new-heal'd wound of malice should break out,
Patience, good lady; wizards know their times:
To a prepared place in the choir, fell off
by and by it will strike.
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
equivocal companion is this!
France were no place for Henry's warriors;
I shall, my liege.
She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner.
Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.
My father was a Mortimer,--
Brought to this shore; and by my prescience
But now I am past an comforts here, but prayers.
What, go you toward the Tower?
Whose hearts are absent too.
Exeunt all but IAGO and CASSIO
Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair,
And in that sea of blood my boy did drench
my purse; I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with
Marvellous well for the pen.
[To Lords without]  Let none disturb us.--Why should
Hot coals of vengeance! Let no soldier fly.
limed her; but it is Jove's doing, and Jove make me
Exit
near the altar, as high priestess; a number of
But 'twould offend him; and in his offence
For I am sure, when he shall see our army,
And, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!
Choler!
With nought but truth. I have wasted myself out of
Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins;
And you, my lords, remember where we are,
Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS with a trumpet
fain to go with a staff, but that my puissance holds
That which is now a horse, even with a thought
stolen. Well, you are to call at all the
For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
well, go to--there were no more comparison between
[Reads]  'An if we miss to meet him handsomely--
My Wolsey, see it furnish'd. O, my lord,
What seem I that I am not?
Away, Sir Corporal Nym!
That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
coward on instinct. I shall think the better of
And think they are my sons, are none of mine;
What a strange case was that! now, before the gods,
And can do nought but wail her darling's loss,
tell her but a worky-day fortune.
Out-sweeten'd not thy breath: the ruddock would,
From any dram of mercy.
Good sister, let us dine and never fret:
O pity! Sir, where is the patience now,
And yours it is against.
Yea, brother of Clarence, are thou here too?
Wherefore, bold peasant,
Was it not she and that good man of worship,
Repent but you that you shall lose your friend,
Where hast thou sent the king?
O, let me have no subject enemies,
Or shall we on the helmets of our foes
And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot,
Give thee her hand, for sign of plighted faith.
Had lived to put on this: so had you saved
I would I were thy bird.
they never meet but there's a skirmish of wit
no harm, good man;' puts him off, slights him, with
To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
SCENE VI. The same. Another room in the palace.
shouldst feel
Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
A marriage 'twixt the Duke of Orleans and
With the rich worth of your virginity.
it ish give over: I would have blowed up the town, so
And thus the native hue of resolution
Embolden'd with the glory of her praise,
God knows how long it is I have to live;
And the rank poison of the old will die.
She intends unto his holiness.
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
As if it some impartment did desire
Now, by my seat's right royal majesty,
Yea, and of this our life, swearing that we
No care of yours it is; you know 'tis ours.
A soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March.
gondola. Why, how now, Orlando! where have you been
A very serious business calls on him.
numbers for the matter;
And prey on garbage.
Have sworn for three years' term to live with me
Between you I shall have a holy head.
Simple of itself; I'll no pullet-sperm in my brewage.
SCENE IV. The palace yard.
Supposing that they saw the king's ship wreck'd
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;
Presents more woeful pageants than the scene
Is certain falling, or so slippery that
Ha' you done?
Sir, I may tell it you, I think I have
Confer with me of murder and of death:
Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way.
ACT V
Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
Rather to show a noble grace to both parts
Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death
led my ragamuffins where they are peppered: there's
Which at the first are scarce found to distaste,
And dare me to the desert with thy sword;
God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,
Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
than now in first seeing he had proved himself a
during my life. I tell thee, Ned, thou hast lost
Ah, never faith could hold, if not to beauty vow'd!
He is not here.
All furnish'd, all in arms;
Enter one with water
The worser welcome:
I have left asleep; and for the rest o' the fleet
Villain, not for thy life: take up my mistress'
Therefore, come back.
One daughter, and a wench full grown,
Why should I think you can be mine and true,
I have, my liege.
Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
How should I be revenged?
As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island--
We'll fall to it with our teeth.
Exit the BASTARD
And those who have the wit to claim the place:
the world: here comes the man you mean.
'Tis some mischance; the cry is very direful.
ink-horn about his neck.
Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak?
Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner,
Making the green one red.
Hie hence, and tell him so. Yet, stay awhile;
Have travail'd in the great shower of your gifts,
Pray, speak in English: here are some will thank you,
If you dare fight to-day, come to the field;
As honest as I am.
So are the horses of the enemy
When every one will give the time of day,
In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then.
Not half an hour before.
laid by, in his nakedness he appears but a man; and
I should have found it afterwards well done;
Unworthy though thou art, I'll cope with thee
This sensible warm motion to become
[To EMILIA]  Some of your function, mistress;
of brown thread: I said a gown.
Pray, do not, sir: I have watched and travell'd hard;
God, the best maker of all marriages,
All's one for that.
As whence the sun 'gins his reflection
Enter MARCUS and LAVINIA
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
On one part and on the other? Take it, God,
And be in eye of every exercise
Incensed the lords o' the council, that he is,
mine honour thou hadst it not.
Bid him prepare; for I will cut his throat.
I will converse with iron-witted fools
That whoso ask'd her for his wife,
hath he provided this music?
Are you sick, Hubert? you look pale to-day:
Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
To tell it o'er: go to; well said, well said.
natures more than is native to them--list me. The
The cause were not in being,--part o' the cause,
Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you! then bid
He knits his brow and shows an angry eye,
O most lame and impotent conclusion! Do not learn
Which not to anger bent, is music and sweet fire.
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
My brother Montague shall post to London:
Than in the glass of Pandar's praise may be;
I wear it as your enemy.
The little casket bring me hither.
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
Then be thou jocund: ere the bat hath flown
Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in France;
Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse,
Either thou wilt die, by God's just ordinance,
These people saw the chain about his neck.
Why should we in our peevish opposition
own child. Well, old man, I will tell you news of
As houses are defiled for want of use,
To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Yea, is it so?
Thou naughty varlet!
Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
Which trades to Venice. Waste no time in words,
At Worcester must his body be interr'd;
Now let thy friendly hand
For nature doth abhor to make his bed
If thou couldst please me with speaking to me, thou
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
in my shirt.
If you'll go fetch him,
Turn me away; and let the foul'st contempt
O that your highness knew my heart in this!
With entertaining great Hyperion.
To keep mine own, excuse it how she can.
bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not
The thane of Cawdor lives: why do you dress me
With joy he will embrace you, for he's honourable
Would imitate, and sail upon the land,
Sir, being his knave, I will.
Alack, for lesser knowledge! how accursed
Look to the lady.
A noise of targets, or to see a fellow
From first to last, the onset and retire
Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
Go with the princes, or stay here with us?
Against her will! good king, look to't in time;
Had stomach for them all.
And like the watchful minutes to the hour,
defence absence. What beast couldst thou be, that
What great ones do the less will prattle of,--
conscience, this one christening will beget a
In the habiliments of the goddess Isis
And well she can persuade.
Most pretty things to say: ere I could tell him
Enter the Travellers
All that are his so too. To do this deed,
Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket.
take Antenor! the young prince will go mad: a
Peaseblossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed!
Know'st thou Fluellen?
The charges of the action. We have made peace
Each way and move. I take my leave of you:
Beat down Alencon, Orleans, Burgundy,
We men may say more, swear more: but indeed
God pless your majesty!
Exit
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
I never did repent for doing good,
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
I am as peremptory as she proud-minded;
Cold statues of the youth, and, in a word,
Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
And to set on this wretched woman here
You go not till I set you up a glass
Now get thee hence: the king, thou know'st, is coming;
Here shall he see No enemy
Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton
Is not to stir without great argument,
Will you not, my lord?
shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and better:
That we shall hardly in our ages see
Trimm'd up your praises with a princely tongue,
Could great men thunder
Nor shall proud Lancaster usurp my right,
Come with thy two-hand sword.
Of all these ears,--for where I am robb'd and bound,
To them accordingly.
The air hath starved the roses in her cheeks
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, and LEPIDUS
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
Not that I have the power to clutch my hand,
You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking
The merciful construction of good women;
love from any: in this, though I cannot be said to
wear their plackets where they should bear their
'Tell him,' quoth she, 'my mourning weeds are done,
Against my very heart. Poor souls, they perish'd.
AEneas, call my brother Troilus to me,
And kept low shrubs from winter's powerful wind.
Where is John Talbot? Pause, and take thy breath;
Rather than purchased; what he cannot change,
Is not your name, sir, call'd Antipholus?
To offer service to the Duke of Hereford,
Exeunt FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
In zeal to you and highly moved to wrath
I dreamt to-night that I did feast with Caesar,
My master's man. Strato, where is thy master?
heart, and my duty, and my life, and my living, and
Give me thy hand;
To give away thy land,
If he, compact of jars, grow musical,
For with long travel I am stiff and weary.
Some light-foot friend post to the Duke of Norfolk:
Upon thy foul disease. Revoke thy doom;
We'll send Mark Antony to the senate-house:
Well then, alone, since there's no remedy,
I must change arms at home, and give the distaff
Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds
By heaven, I saw my handkerchief in's hand.
Gentleman, God save thee.
Until my husband bid me.
your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow!
And my ending is despair,
I am no breeching scholar in the schools;
indeed, his fact, till now in the government of Lord
Yet heavens are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
To MARDIAN
Worthy man!
puppy; one that I saved from drowning, when three or
No, my dear'st love,
If thou wilt outstrip death, go cross the seas,
Enter DIOMEDES, with CRESSIDA
ACT III
I shoot thee at the swain.
You should find better dealing. What's to do?
No way to that, for weakness, which she enter'd.
Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
Exit LUCIUS
Thou bid'st me beg: this begging is not strange.
A thing for me? it is a common thing--
Let villany itself forswear't. I must
Or did the letters work upon his blood,
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
You Dukes of Orleans, Bourbon, and of Berri,
How does the queen?
Because we bid it. Say, is it done?
Than this kind kiss. O Lord, that lends me life,
A poor esquire of Kent, that loves his king.
Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
shrinks from him.
By the Athenian garments he hath on.
Be living and be here?
And yet I would it were to give again.
We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.
Yet if thou say Antony lives, is well,
Makes factious feasts; rails on our state of war,
Hath Cadwal now to give it motion? Hark!
Hear you this Triton of the minnows? mark you
Seek to know no more.
Thou great commander, nerve and bone of Greece,
Within the eye of honour, be assured,
'Twere better she were kiss'd in general.
My duty on your hand.
Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to thee
but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten
Re-enter FALSTAFF in woman's clothes, and MISTRESS PAGE
And peace established between these realms
I am sorry
E'en so; a great deal of your wit, too, lies in your
Answering before we do demand of them.
Had you such leisure in the time of death
Come, he is here, my lord; do not deny him:
Shall Rome,  and c. Speak, strike, redress!
For so he said he would: I hear him near.
noble gentleman, Edmund?
And deeper than did ever plummet sound
See thyself, devil!
Alas, poor lady!
Yea, even I alone.
The shrine of Venus, or straight-pight Minerva.
Take in your love, and then let me alone.
money for thee: if you tarry longer, I shall give
'This we received;' and each in either side
Make no collection of it: let him show
to prison, Pompey?
To furnish thee to Belmont, to fair Portia.
sworn not to give regard to you. Farewell; and come
While he himself keeps in the cold field?
To her whose worth makes other worthies nothing;
The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
He should not humour me. I will this night,
But for supporting robbers, shall we now
That should but rive an oak. Why dost not speak?
Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st
Ourselves to be.
That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow
Perge, good Master Holofernes, perge; so it shall
cuckold, they would make themselves whores, but
'as sure as day,'
bears will not bite one another when they meet.
Our lock'd embrasures, strangles our dear vows
The knights and gentlemen to come with thee:
Enter Nurse
Her eye is sick on't: I observe her now.
Finch-egg!
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
That she this day hath shameless thrown on me.
The church's prayers made him so prosperous.
A Grecian's life hath sunk; for every scruple
Understanding, it strikes a man more dead than a
The last that e'er I took her at court,
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
about your neck, like an usurer's chain? or under
And with the ostent of war will look so huge,
Exeunt FERDINAND, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
REGAN plucks his beard
So that we fled; the king unto the queen;
As Ariachne's broken woof to enter.
Re-enter DIOMEDES
His highness' pleasure is to talk with him.
To make hazard of new fortunes here:
they always use to laugh at nothing.
Hast thou that holy feeling in thy soul,
And such an instrument I was to use.
a-work, and how ill requited! why should our
And yet I will not name it; and yet I care not;
Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend,
Though great ones are their object. 'Tis even so;
O slaves, I can tell you news,-- news, you rascals!
your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so
'Little' again! nothing but 'low' and 'little'!
setting thy knighthood aside, thou art a knave to
But be thou mild and blush not at my shame,
Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder
Your person most, that he would pawn his fortunes
Mine and your master, with his own hand gave me;
Adieu: be vigitant, I beseech you.
Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
Which gives the stern'st good-night. He is about it:
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie;
No, you see, he is his argument that has his
Fall, when Love please! marry, to each, but one!
I have some private schooling for you both.
That my ability may undergo
Varro's Servant	How dost, fool?
other day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,'
The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.
Which now's upon's; without the which this story
Herein I see thou lovest me not with the full weight
And I'll be chief to bring him down again:
Yet looks he like a king: behold, his eye,
All these and more we hazard by thy stay;
For Hecuba!
Why, she hath a face of her own.
own part, I am, as they say, but to parfect one man
This savours not much of distraction.
O ye gods, ye gods! must I endure all this?
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
this hour, and your son here at home, more advanced
Seats herself on the ground
When you curse them as enemies.
None that beheld him, but, like lesser lights,
And his unbookish jealousy must construe
Would he were a Trojan!
To bring him in! Trust me, I could do much,--
Lending your kind commiseration.
As being got, your father then in France,
He is walked up to the top of the hill: I'll go seek him.
soldiers and my young lady!
And to give notice, that no manner of person
That when she dies with beauty dies her store.
I' the last night's storm I such a fellow saw;
Very well, my lord.
king's daughter is found: such a deal of wonder is
Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword
Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
That thou hast proved Lucilius' saying true.
In, boy; go first. You houseless poverty,--
Or all or lose his hire.
Shall to the edge of all extremity
They have a king and officers of sorts;
The lass I spoke of.
Even so. Cover their faces.
Unmerciful lady as you are, I'm none.
For I will be thy beadsman, Valentine.
These words, these looks, infuse new life in me.
What, Sir John Falstaff! Are these your letters, knight?
With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
Nay, more, an enemy unto you all,
Cobweb: if I cut my finger, I shall make bold with
Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize.
Nor to the motion of a schoolboy's tongue,
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and Attendants
And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
I will instruct my sorrows to be proud;
Before I be convict by course of law,
Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling;
Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.
Alas, the way is wearisome and long!
With that he call'd the tailor lown.
Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;
Thou must.
Good sooth, it show'd well in you: do so now:
I must go in. Ay me, how weak a thing
Shallow, esquire, saith, he is wronged.
Good friends, go in, and taste some wine with me;
May know if you remain upon this island;
all flesh and blood are; and, indeed, I do marry
Hear ye, captain, are you not at leisure?
The hearts of all that he did angle for;
Good morrow.
I grant, sweet love, that I did love a lady;
To trust the mockery of unquiet slumbers
then come back to my master's as soon as I can.
Capering to eye her: on a trice, so please you,
My father's brother, but no more like my father
Hence, prating peasant! fetch thy master home.
hurt not. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank
Their mutinies and revolts, wherein they show'd
Disbursed by my father in his wars.
Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
We are yours i' the garden: shall's attend you there?
napkins; that, Master Brook, there was the rankest
it is a prison.
what thou wert, if Fortune thy foe were not, Nature
And I in such a poverty of grace,
I'll deny nothing.
And willingly could waste my time in it.
Sir, let me speak with you in your chamber: you
Exeunt CAPULET and PARIS
good dishes,--
She have restrain'd the riots of your followers,
My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
Re-enter second Gentleman
I promised to inquire carefully
How long is this ago?
Polixenes for Leontes: O thou thing!
bridegroom wants
Ay, madam; in the heaviness of his sleep
friends for my wife's sake.
Where is he?
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
Lo, hand in hand, Lucius and I will fall.
And, that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
And am right glad to catch this good occasion
of courtesy; and tell me flatly I am no proud Jack,
Though not his prime consent, he did not flow
There is ten thousand--
Or, if you'ld ask, remember this before:
thy tabour?
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Where lies he?
Proteus, the good conceit I hold of thee--
Who willed you? or whose will stands but mine?
To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps;
This night methinks is but the daylight sick;
Harry, that prophesied thou shouldst be king,
Business, my lord! I think most understand
To hedge me in; I am a soldier, I,
And make assurance here in Padua
ANTIPHOLUS
The napless vesture of humility;
Faint-hearted boy, arise, and look upon her.
There is a soul counts thee her creditor
And that thy summer bred us no increase,
I am sorry now that I did draw on him.
fear who knows it, when none can call our power to
As well as we! ay, and better too; we offend worse.
Proud and disdainful, harping on what I am,
My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
pronounced:
Exit
she's dead,
Her countless glory, which desert must gain;
'As true as Troilus' shall crown up the verse,
Though calved i' the porch o' the Capitol--
Whiles I in Ireland nourish a mighty band,
Is not his grace protector to the king?
With sighs of love, that costs the fresh blood dear:
Under the hatches; the master and the boatswain
Make us partakers of a little gain,
Before you answer Warwick. His demand
And more convenient is he for my hand
When time is broke and no proportion kept!
King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague,
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
E'en such as you speak to me.
Merry, amen. I will, sir, I will.
Exeunt FALSTAFF and ROBIN
And bow this feeble ruin to the earth:
For two; and sound ones too.
Even till a Lethe'd dulness!
against him: if thou canst cuckold him, thou dost
As o'er-dyed blacks, as wind, as waters, false
Unburthen'd crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall,
Say thou wilt walk; we will bestrew the ground:
Mine own, I would say; but if mine, then yours,
As stuff for these two to make paradoxes.
And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.
Married the Duke of Clarence' daughter, did he not?
To have her love, provided that your fortune
Now, Mars, I prithee, make us quick in work,
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
negligence, nothing of my purpose.
But that of coward hares, hot goats, and venison!
Do you not remember, a' saw a flea stick upon
Alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip?
SCENE II. Blackheath.
Peter, stay at the gate.
And you.
What is thy name, that in the battle thus
So it should seem by that I have to say.
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
Even to the guilt or the purgation.
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, the purse borne before him,  certain of the Guard, and two Secretaries with  papers. CARDINAL WOLSEY in his passage fixeth his  eye on BUCKINGHAM, and BUCKINGHAM on him, both full of disdain
The lane is guarded: nothing routs us but
That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress
Or your own honour to contain the ring,
Wherefore they do it: they could be content
That have a sharper known; well corresponding
perfect image of life indeed. The better part of
Buckingham's army is dispersed and scatter'd;
Naughty lady,
Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.
I have business to my lord, dear queen. My lord,
Those he commands move only in command,
I cannot speak of this. Come now, your promise.
me, 'As jealous as Ford, Chat searched a hollow
Exit Gaoler
Rapine and Murder; therefore called so,
I will go on. I lay with Cassio lately;
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong;
That's not so good now.
Enter a Gentleman
Pronouncing that the paleness of this flower
Look not pale, Bianca; thy father will not frown.
Shall I be your playfellow?
Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Alban's field
Show nothing but confusion, eyed awry
would prove: my friends told me as much, and I
I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
Nor ever had one penny bribe from France.
That I sleeping here was found
All put on their masks
The element they lived in: in his livery
chamber-window, bids me a thousand times good
So should the murder'd look, and so should I,
Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
have fortunes coming upon you. Mark me: you must
Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive
Large-handed robbers your grave masters are,
another as half-pence are, every one fault seeming
Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and
Which very manners urges.
Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine;
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.
As you shall deem yourself lodged in my heart,
Gentlemen, good den: a word with one of you.
Stays in his course and plays the alchemist,
And this the banquet she shall surfeit on;
that she sends you to prison hither?
Commit the war of white and damask in
which his animals on his dunghills are as much
The precious jewel of thy home return.
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
wife about her husband's neck, hardly to be shook
When, lo! to interrupt my purposed rest,
Good words the other day of a bay courser
a Cressida to this Troilus.
A senseless villain! Good Hortensio,
When he sees me go back one foot or fly.
Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth,
Not since widow Dido's time.
Enter Chorus
Have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
Flourish
All o'erjoy'd,
Whose watery arch and messenger am I,
Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
She shall not.
Sit down: thou art no flatterer:
He makes me angry with him; for he seems
Well.
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
And happy were I in my timely death,
Look forward on the journey you shall go.
Do thou thy master's bidding: when thou see'st him,
Exit Second Servant
I strike quickly, being moved.
Of no esteem: I, dreading that her purpose
If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.
Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her
What need you tell me that? I think so, when I took
Should be 'Remember mine.'
committed at the bridge.
Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may!
Subjected tribute to commanding love,
Sings
As this pomp shows to a little oil and root.
A station like the herald Mercury
That he dined not at home, but was lock'd out.
Renowned queen, with patience calm the storm,
Your highness told me I should post before.
But, sir, here comes your boy;
not in't; but they themselves are o' the mind, if it
Dispatch the most convenient messenger:
She was the first fruit of my bachelorship.
of beauty.
only receive this villanous wrong, but stand under
It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
Ay, ay; I must bear it.
Master, be wise: an if you give it her,
your honour
The sessions shall proceed: this is mere falsehood.
And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true,
And I will die a hundred thousand deaths
Knocks
However these disturbers of our peace
For blushing cheeks by faults are bred
Out of all eyes, tongues, minds and injuries.
you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
He dies, and makes no sign. O God, forgive him!
Good night:
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, LUCILIUS, LUCIUS, and Soldiers; TITINIUS and PINDARUS meeting them
Good friend, thou hast no cause to say so yet,
Quick, quick, good hands.
Proud can I never be of what I hate;
The life, the right and truth of all this realm
Come buy of me, come; come buy, come buy;
that is an old man and no honester than I.
Brutus, I do observe you now of late:
How they are stain'd, as meadows, yet not dry,
Our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage.
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
Gaultier or Walter, which it is, I care not:
Enter to the Protector at the Tower Gates BISHOP OF WINCHESTER and his men in tawny coats
And sure, unless you send some present help,
We wish it ours again; the present pleasure,
Thus much of this will make black white, foul fair,
And sheathe for lack of sport: let us but blow on them,
I may not, madam:
Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
Juno and Ceres whisper, and send Iris on employment
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
Christian burial.
What from the cape can you discern at sea?
What sport shall we devise here in this garden,
This pausingly ensued: neither the king nor's heirs,
To stand auspicious mistress,--
I charge you, as you hope to have redemption
COUNTESS
preserve it from tainting: but I see you have some
Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer
That you are odd, and he is even with you.
Distract your army, which doth most consist
Avaunt, thou dreadful minister of hell!
When a gentleman is disposed to swear, it is not for
Such as I am: though for myself alone
What would you have me do? I am a subject,
I am your free dependant.
Most certain. Sister, welcome: pray you,
Cry: 'St. George,' 'A Talbot.'
blessed!--any hurt in the world; but keeps the
What was the offence you gave him?
Should well agree with our external parts?
While as the silly owner of the goods
I have.
What's he that wishes so?
Enter a Servant
are they not monsters?
O you gods!
I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford,
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
Who would not wish to be from wealth exempt,
Ay, that I will; and I'll be wise hereafter
If this be magic, let it be an art
Call up Lord Stanley, bid him bring his power:
Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for a
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
And I of him will gather patience.
Is not the causer of the timeless deaths
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
And apprehended here immediately
Now, this no more dishonours you at all
That you are worthless.
Do make their children blind;
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated,
What say'st thou, man? hast thou as yet conferr'd
silence in it; and the place answer to convenience.
Enter his thoughts, save such as do revolve
whipped three market-days together.
Hearing alarums at our chamber-doors.
Leave! an you take leave till to-morrow morning,--
Since when, my watch hath told me, toward my grave
woman; for in the shape of man, Master Brook, I fear
Defy him by the Lord of Westmoreland.
The horn, I say. Farewell.
that he shall go.
But she I mean is promised by her friends
[Drawing]  How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
Exeunt, bearing MARK ANTONY
Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate.
Who are at hand, triumphantly display'd,
All is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
Signior Baptista, of whom I hear so well.
That in alliance, amity and oaths,
But could be willing to march on to Calais
And three times as much more, and yet nothing at
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;
Heard many grievous, I do say, my lord,
[Within]  Who knocks at the door?
That was he
You gods, reward them!
Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent!
How under my oppression I did reek,
Let us not burthen our remembrance with
And most pernicious purpose! Seeming, seeming!
This little abstract doth contain that large
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them;
as far from jealousy as I am from giving him cause;
kill him; by this sword, I will.
Daughter, remember what I told you: if the prince
As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
God's will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.
rescue in the first assault or ransom afterward.
bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the gaol: we
Alack, too weak the conflict to support!
'Twas said they saw but one; and no discerner
Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu;
But to his foe supposed he must complain,
It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
The violent fit o' the time craves it as physic
Who, Monsieur Veroles?
My trusty servant, well approved in all,
Did you send to him, sir?
In reckoning up the several devils' names
a cudgel; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a
Exit
Singing
a most festinate preparation: we are bound to the
Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honour
For what obscured light the heavens did grant
What might import my sister's letter to him?
Alexander killed his friend Cleitus, being in his
And his offence is so, as it appears,
That were the opposites of this day's strife:
What news with thee, AEmilius?
Jack shall have Jill;
Your king and Warwick's, and must have my will.
'Twill make us proud to be his servant, Paris;
Nerissa, that I cannot choose one nor refuse none?
Come hither, Francis.
And she must not speak
O young John Talbot! I did send for thee
Mistake me not, my lord; 'tis not my meaning
Those at her father's churlish feet she tender'd;
[Aside]  If 'twere a substance, you would, sure,
And both the princes had been breathing here,
me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn,
Hark! hark! the Dauphin's drum, a warning bell,
An humble heart,--
I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot!
Jove, I thank thee: I will smile; I will do
I thank thee. Mariner, say what coast is this?
Into a strumpet's fool: behold and see.
Call him my king by whose injurious doom
To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
Touches me deeper than you can imagine.
Wrought he not well that painted it?
She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks
to come unarmed to my tent, and to procure
Re-enter KING. BERTRAM and PAROLLES retire
And all our princes captiv'd by the hand
You know your father's temper: at this time
Were wreck'd upon this shore; where I have lost--
And so our scene must to the battle fly;
And melt ere they molest! Here lies your brother,
That was the way to make his godhead wax,
Like water from ye, never found again
Too long a pause for that which you find there.
Breathe not where princes are.
We house i' the rock, yet use thee not so hardly
That rail'd against our person: we consider
As I do know the consul's worthiness,
The empress sends it thee, thy stamp, thy seal,
I Pompey am,--
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
By heaven, it is the same I gave the doctor!
Say to great Caesar this: in deputation
To CYMBELINE
That chambers will be safe.
Thou teachest like a fool; the way to lose him.
But come, the bow: now mercy goes to kill,
Exit
If the duke be guiltless,
And we shall talk before we fight.
to the madman.
In all which time you and your husband Grey
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
With this same play, against your nuptial.
Ha!
Come hither, you rogue. What, have you forgot me?
I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret-castle;
To meet you on the way, and welcome you.
Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
I'll use that tongue I have: if wit flow from't
My lord, I do not know;
His wish'd ability, he had himself
Loaden with honour. Say my request's unjust,
Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.
from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run
Of mere compassion and of lenity,
upon too trivial motion; one that converses more
Of this deep pit, poor Bassianus' grave.
Son to the elder brother of this man,
It is not yet near day. Come, go with me;
And thus expiring do foretell of him:
Gave hope thou wast in being, have preserved
Nay, that shall not serve your turn; that shall not,
What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?
Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven,
valiant, I honour him: but, as he was ambitious, I
Is she worth keeping? why, she is a pearl,
Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
He may my proffer take for an offence,
To her will, sir, or so.
Which calls me pupil, or hath read to me?
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
It is the cry of women, my good lord.
presently to Saint Luke's: there, at the moated
I have on Angelo imposed the office;
To make them kings, the seed of Banquo kings!
Exeunt
A dog of that house shall move me to stand: I will
Away with him, away with him! he speaks Latin.
second cock: and drink, sir, is a great
To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
This disease is beyond my practise: yet I have known
'Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag.
Enter a Herald
Do you your office, or give up your place,
other: and she bade me tell your worship that her
Even to the uttermost, as I please, in words.
My very hairs do mutiny; for the white
That bloody mind, I think, they learn'd of me,
What, I prithee, might be the cause?
Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself
it loathes.
How ugly night comes breathing at his heels:
O the blest gods! so will you wish on me,
I thought that all things had been savage here;
And then grace us in the disgrace of death;
I thank you for your pains: spend this for me.
I had rather want those than my head. Have at you!
I am full sorry
Of Canterbury, accompanied with other
I shall remain your debtor.
With reservation of an hundred knights,
you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid
'Will you come home?' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
Then let the earth be drunken with our blood:
From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
The ambassador is silenced?
Besides, virginity is peevish, proud, idle, made of
A man throng'd up with cold: my veins are chill,
To OPHELIA
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
And I will love thee, and prefer thee too.
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
To a most base and vile-concluded peace.
If the good truth were known.
From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring,
Howe'er repented after.
In fair Bohemia, and remember well,
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
Deserved this hearing--bid 'em send o' the instant
to herself her own words to her own ears; she
I'll to my rest.
More out of malice than integrity,
SCENE III. The same. Street before Pandarus' house.
But, I protest, I love to hear him lie
My hand cut off and made a merry jest;
Faith, as you say, there's small choice in rotten
Now counterfeit to swoon; why now fall down;
blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
This by the eye of Cynthia hath she vow'd
What says she to my face?
The other did not so.
Yet their own authors faithfully affirm
That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin,
I will, my lord.
to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever;
True, sir; I was in love with my bed: I thank you,
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Enter CAPHIS
Well, what is it? is it within reason and compass?
Enter THYREUS
But dare maintain the party of the truth,
And now you know my meaning,
With tapesty of silk and silver; the story
As doth befit our honour and your worth.
For if but once thou show me thy grey light,
Not see him since? Sir, sir, that cannot be:
Death, traitor! nothing could have subdued nature
mocked me before: but come your ways.
Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
Which I have better'd rather than decreased:
This was a way to thrive, and he was blest:
skin hangs about me like an like an old lady's loose
Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains,
There comes an old man and his three sons,--
Speak, Romans, speak; and if you say we shall,
observation we have made of it hath not been
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
shot out in our latter times.
excommunication and meet me at the gaol.
From Goneril his mistress salutations;
How do you mean?
Yes, certainly, and out of doubt and out of question
And lay them gently on thy tender side.
Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.
Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
If Marcus did not name the word of hands!
If they deny him justice: twenty merchants,
And therefore, finding barren practisers,
Re-enter PANDARUS
The middle centre of this cursed town.
Yea, so familiar!
Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood,--
I have been in such a pickle since I
In the most terrible and nimble stroke
To wear an undeserved dignity.
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his
It shall be still thy true love's recompense:
And this word 'love,' which graybeards call divine,
Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders
Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request,
Nor none that live, I hope.
I would it would be quiet.
By our beards, if we had them, thou art.
breakfast to the wolf: if thou wert the wolf, thy
So likely to report themselves: the cutter
If you do free your children from the sword,
thought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, and
O the gods!
Near to the king in blood, and near in love
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
In which I have commended to his goodness
so loud and so melancholy. But notwithstanding,
Why, our authority is his consent,
Follow the noise so far as we have quarter;
Ready to go, but never to return.
bestowed much on her; followed her with a doting
It is but change, Titinius; for Octavius
Sirs, take your places and be vigilant:
The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand
My lords, what to your wisdoms seemeth best,
Mistress Ford, and requests your company.
Ready, my lord.
Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
duke's time; he promised her marriage: his child
That weaken motion: I'll have't disputed on;
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
The love that follows us sometime is our trouble,
Were my fortunes equal to my desires, I could wish
ACT I
Exit First Servant
Enter PERICLES with Attendants
corrupt him to revolt.' What say you to this? what
I will go meet them: and, my Lord AEneas,
Katharine our queen, before the primest creature
Enter Pandar, Bawd, and BOULT
The fellow has good judgment.
In my heart's love hath no man than yourself:
My wife is nothing; nor nothing have these nothings,
By longing for that food so long a time.
Exit
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM
Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils,
To know who hath obtained the glory of the day.
SCENE I. The heath.
No, madam; we will bring you on your way.
The face of Caesar, they are vanished.
Re-enter GLENDOWER with the ladies
So he that doth redeem her thence might wear
No; for he could not so resign his crown
The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.
In pity of our aged and our youth,
I come to pierce it, or to give thee mine.
Hath he said any thing?
Is to do thus; when such a mutual pair
ACT IV
Call you this chiding?
'Tis far off
To fortune's alms.
Exeunt
Who is your sister's son, Mark Antony.
Once I encounter'd him, and thus I said:
The body's delicate: the tempest in my mind
I to myself am dearer than a friend,
You are well favour'd, and your looks foreshow
degree of a squire.
The heads of Oxford, Salisbury, Blunt, and Kent:
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
When he was seated in a chariot
the revenue that was old Sir Rowland's will I
Retire thee; go where thou art billeted:
ACT IV
For visiting your highness: my best train
To stoop in such a case.
Than man could give him, he died fearing God.
SCENE IV. The court.
The Volscians are dislodged, and Marcius gone:
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
What think you of a duchess? have you limbs
No master, sir, but a poor man's son: his father,
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet
Confined to exhibition! All this done
daughter of most rare note: the report of her is
Let us assail the family of York.
And all unlook'd for from your highness' mouth:
For the love of God, a surgeon! Send one presently
[Rising up]  Embowelled! if thou embowel me to-day,
Hold, take thou this, my sweet, and give me thine,
Are not you Signior Benedick?
My honourable lords, health to you all!
Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst
I will no further chide you.
But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy
To speak with you; may it please you to come down.
My lord, dispatch; read o'er these articles.
For such a business; therefore am I found
And show the heavens more just.
The imperious churchman, Somerset, Buckingham,
Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
I thank thee, Hector
Then, God be bless'd, it is the blessed sun:
Thou art a fool: she robs thee of thy name;
A virgin and his servant, say to him.
A widow, husbandless, subject to fears,
That ever ear received: which in recounting
Thrice-worthy gentleman!
With every minute you do change a mind,
Obedience fail in children! slaves and fools,
Before I positively herein:
may strike at you: provoke him, that he may; for
No? a dozen times at least.
Away! I say; commend me to thy master.
whisper: with as little a web as this will I
any more to your tents: I will keep where there is
no sooner achieved, but we'll set upon them.
Quip Modest; the third, the Reply Churlish; the
Writing
There is some strange misprision in the princes.
There is no world without Verona walls,
Save, from my glass, mine own; nor have I seen
conversation, that he dares in this manner assay me?
thankful should be,
If so, our copper buys no better treasure.
And yet I must remember you, my lord,
I'll stay no longer question.
Exeunt
They shall have my horses; but I'll make them pay;
Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold,
And this way have you well expounded it.
He's fallen in love with your foulness and she'll
A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day,
Where lies your text?
BISHOP
so he that in this action contrives against his own
'Lo, Jupiter is yonder, dealing life!'
Mark Antony is every hour in Rome
And in the last repeating troublesome,
But that's all one; omittance is no quittance.
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
To do this ruthless piece of butchery,
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
The master of the cross-bows, Lord Rambures;
After I have done what I promised?
Therefore I pray you: I'll see you by and by.
So we be rid of them, do with 'em what thou wilt.
Enter, on one side, QUEEN ELIZABETH, DUCHESS OF  YORK, and DORSET; on the other, ANNE, Duchess of  Gloucester, leading Lady Margaret Plantagenet, CLARENCE's young Daughter
clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion
duke is strong.' What say you to that?
I must obey: his art is of such power,
Now the fair goddess, Fortune,
colours. But to return to the verses: did they
Of thine own cause.
Sent down among 'em, which hath flaw'd the heart
And hold me pace in deep experiments.
Nor wish no less; and so, I take my leave.
Enter SPEED and LAUNCE severally
More than God or religious churchmen may.
Till there be more matter in the shin.
Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot.
May run into that sink, and soaking in
Prove our commodities. O dear son Edgar,
Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought;
No my lord;
Where are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
The hour's now come;
To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain,
Ay, let her rot, and perish, and be damned to-night;
I'll be thy master: walk with me; speak freely.
His head is off and sent to Angelo.
Give with our niece a dowry large enough:
I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve.
Whose heir my father was, and I am his.
But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do.
You say true; 'tis so, indeed: if such tricks as
They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts,
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
Walks and whispers
And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
To admit no traffic to our adverse towns Nay, more,
Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.
Enter the Guard, rushing in
As she is prized to have--as to refuse
was no less than his. If then that friend demand
what's the matter?
Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.
Than on a wretch whom nature is ashamed
Twenty crowns!
With too much riches it confound itself:
Stamp, rave, and fret, that I may sing and dance.
Condemns you to the death. See them deliver'd over
O, who hath done this deed?
To ease your country of distressful war,
Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant's life;
Under an oak whose antique root peeps out
Put strength enough to't.
Ye have found him, cardinal:
I saw Jove's bird, the Roman eagle, wing'd
My derivation was from ancestors
He being her pupil, to become her tutor.
Against an oath: the truth thou art unsure
make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate: do
Mark you but that!
Dost thou here lie!
As heart can think or courage execute.
Sing, and disperse 'em, if thou canst: leave working.
I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand.
The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome
To spit on thee again, to spurn thee too.
With dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews
Who from the sacred ashes of her honour
thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for a squire's
Let me embrace thee in my weary arms:
Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page,
This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo.
Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,
To hurt by being just: it is as lawful,
Call by thy trumpet: he that dares approach,
O, a pit of clay for to be made
sword, and then we will chop him in the malmsey-butt
My matter hath no voice, to your own most pregnant
I and my sword will earn our chronicle:
A hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well;
And from the cross-row plucks the letter G.
You scorn: believe me, 'twere best I did give o'er.
Strikes him
Prithee, allow the wind.
Be now as prodigal of all dear grace
Go, go, dispatch.
You might have been enough the man you are,
But with the word the time will bring on summer,
Being ne'er so little urged, another way
That stabb'd me in the field by Tewksbury;
Not I:
Receive each other. God speak this Amen!
Fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid's kind,
Enter ROMEO
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends,
I will example it:
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
I'll never follow thy pall'd fortunes more.
He presently, as greatness knows itself,
Such a foe, good heavens!
[Within]  Let me go in to see the generals;
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
a light burning.
Come, tears, confound;
Made prize and purchase of his lustful eye,
He'll drop his heart into the sink of fear
I'll tell her the next time I see her: for my part,
And, by that fatherly and kindly power
Why, very well, then,--
Do through the clouds behold this present hour,
His son was but a ward two years ago.
Flourish of cornets. Enter PORTIA, with the PRINCE OF MOROCCO, and their trains
Break up this capon.
Sir, we have a chest beneath the hatches, caulked
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
The Pyrenean and the river Po,
Why, and I challenge nothing but my dukedom,
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
Indeed, my lord, it is a most absolute and excellent horse.
Not fearing the displeasure of your master,
Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death,
stabbed their mothers, they would have done no less.
This gentleman, whom I call Polydore,
That Margaret may be England's royal queen.
This note doth tell me of ten thousand French
O, she that might have intercepted thee,
on a recorder; a sound, but not in government.
Believe me, sir, they butt together well.
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
Kind gentlemen, let's go see poor Cassio dress'd.
without warning.
now.
Monsieur le Fer.
Hath stepp'd into the law, which is past depth
fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead
But penetrable to your. kind entreats,
Lackbeard there, he and I shall meet: and, till
You have done a brave deed. Ere you go, hear this:--
And could it not enforce them to relent,
Hostility and civil tumult reigns
So disguise shall, by the disguised,
And, pray, receive 'em nobly, and conduct 'em
name is Tranio.
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,
Shall more attend upon the coming space,
Consisting equally of horse and foot;
Now here he fights on Galathe his horse,
That did oppose my will: better Macbeth
SCENE XII. Egypt. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
These miseries are more than may be borne.
Which then they had to take from 's, to resume
This would have seem'd a period
Speak freely what you think.
Earl of Northumberland, he slew thy father.
I do remember.
It shall be so; and at the other hill
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
given me this morning; but I defy all angels, in
A better life. 'Tis paltry to be Caesar;
Pantingly forth, as if it press'd her heart:
Where it fits not you to know.
yet, when they stoop, they stoop with the like
Ere I arise, I will prefer my sons;
her? and loving woo? and, wooing, she should
Now I know you better.
garters of an indifferent knit: let them curtsy
It does, my boy:
In Pericles, his queen and daughter, seen,
Drest in a little brief authority,
the shearers, three-man-song-men all, and very good
capons and clocks the tongues of bawds and dials the
Now, presently: bid them come forth and hear me,
Presents well worthy Rome's imperial lord:
tree, understand a plain man in his plain meaning:
But that I was a journeyman to grief?
Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd
Here lived I, but now live here no more.
No I'll be sworn; unless you call three fingers on
My lord, I am a man whom fortune hath cruelly
London road for fleas: I am stung like a tench.
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
Exeunt
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
She whom thou gavest to me to be my wife,
That ever was prince's child. Happy what follows!
Read it.
Why did I marry? This honest creature doubtless
Which served me as fit, by all men's judgments,
let him sleep till day. I'll to the court in the
Nay, let it rest where it began at first.
a-coming will speak their mind in some other sort.
methought I had,--but man is but a patched fool, if
And call'd unto a cardinal's degree?
heure de couper votre gorge.
How now, Sir Proteus! Is your countryman
Exit HORATIO
The scatter'd foe that hopes to rise again;
And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
mighty business in hand.
keep my sides to myself, my shoulders for the fellow
That so my sad decrees may fly away,
How, madam! Russians!
Till that, I'll view the manners of the town,
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
And set them on Lud's-town.
Nay, I am for all waters.
If any such there be, heaven pardon him!
And mine that I was proud on, mine so much
Ay, there it is.
When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
is imperial: England shall repent his folly, see
girl; and therefore welcome the sour cup of
Daunt all your hopes: madam, he comforts you
Nay, you need not fear us, Lorenzo: Launcelot and I
This lady's husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slain,
Never so weary, never so in woe,
The usurping helmets of our adversaries!
The rest shall bear this burden
day find it.
Exit FRIAR LAURENCE
The appellant in all duty greets your highness,
I know him for a man divine and holy;
But Tuesday night last gone in's garden-house
With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
Re-enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, with GARDINER
unsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to a
Myself your loyal servant, your physician,
I am like you, they say.
Upon them! victory sits on our helms.
Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
So smooth he daub'd his vice with show of virtue,
The liberal opposition of our spirits,
to the sleeve-hand and the work about the square on't.
If you think so, then stay at home and go not.
are as mad as he.
ACT V
If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it
Choler, my lord, if rightly taken.
Did I the tired Caesar. And this man
Amen, say we: we will be witnesses.
Swear by my sword.
The queen of curds and cream.
I know, Iago,
And seek for grace. What a thrice-double ass
Nor I nor any man that but man is
Out of the bowels of the harmless earth,
For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun
To meet your father and the Scottish power,
Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of
Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
That you might know it, would much better please me
No, indeed, are they not.
clap him and hiss him, according as he pleased and
Be it our wives, our children, or ourselves,
Is she kind as she is fair?
On him so near us? This needs must be a practise.
Jeweller:	I have a jewel here--
Some sins do bear their privilege on earth,
it over: by the Lord, and I do not, I am a villain:
I would be so triumphant as I am?
Than if you had at leisure known of this.
To leave the city and commit yourself
If it appear not plain and prove untrue,
That may be, for you bear a many superfluously, and
beguiled Master Slender of his chain cozened him of
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.
Shall all thy mother's hopes lie in one tomb?
The gates of mercy shall be all shut up,
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
Now, by mine honour, by my life, by my troth,
Let every eye negotiate for itself
Does thoughts unveil in their dumb cradles.
To follow Caesar in his triumph, since
One that before the judgement carries poor souls to hell.
Ay, now begins a second storm to rise;
thought my spleen; the heaving of my lungs provokes
Exit PORTIA
For princes should be free.
As we do in our quality much want--
Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;
From when this stream through muddy passages
And, his corruption being ta'en from us,
Are you there, wife? you might have come before.
The duty that I owe unto your majesty
This fever, that hath troubled me so long,
I will stand to and feed,
Hath wisdom's warrant and the help of school
Come, come; when saw you my father last?
Before I were forced out!
Come on, strike up!
Put out the light, and then put out the light:
What think'st thou of the rich Mercatio?
Enter COSTARD
The cygnet's down is harsh and spirit of sense
But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime
I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
Enter CORDELIA, KENT, and Doctor
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose,--
Of such contents as you will wonder at;
It is not honesty in me to speak
And so, God give you quiet rest to-night!
The impression of keen whips I'ld wear as rubies,
And I to Norfolk with my followers.
And let his manly face, which promiseth
ACT II
And so farewell until I meet thee next.
the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
Go to the fellow, good Alexas; bid him
From change of fortune. Why this spade? this place?
Is notwithstanding up. Good morrow, Antony.
Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly;
Upon what bargain do you give it me?
A grave: come, arm him. Boy, he is preferr'd
I warrant it is to knight you, captain.
Troubled, confronted thus; and, for the extent
We'll hunt no more to-day, nor seek for danger
O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!
From top to toe?
See Cassio wipe his beard with.
Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd.
But rather reason thus with reason fetter,
That will speak any thing?
Ah, countrymen! if when you make your prayers,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
Say to me, when sawest thou the Prince Florizel, my
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne Page,
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take
And you shall find I like it: wait attendance
For I am he am born to tame you Kate,
[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
And yet detested life not shrink thereat!
to marriage which they will climb incontinent, or
What, what! good cheer! Why, how now, Charmian!
I warrant thee.
Be so dishonour'd in the court of Rome.
To gather our soldiers, scatter'd and dispersed,
up my legs sometime, yet I made a shift to cast
Kent banish'd thus! and France in choler parted!
When was my lord so much ungently temper'd,
He might have took his answer long ago.
Oh! oh! a while, but ha! ha! ha!
To be a warrior, and command a camp.
Say on, my loving lord.
My soul upon the forfeit, that your lord
As calling home our exiled friends abroad
With that keen appetite that he sits down?
O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
than the poor thing is here. I'll take it up for
O plague and madness!
For that I am some twelve or fourteen moon-shines
are chosen, they are glad to choose me for them; I
Stays but the summons of the appellant's trumpet.
Yet hath a woman's kindness over-ruled:
Enter GADSHILL
Who? Silvia?
My prayers, minx!
And let not hemp his wind-pipe suffocate:
Where prayers cross.
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
We go to gain a little patch of ground
discretion; and the fox carries the goose.
I am glad on't with all my heart.--
For what thou professest, a baboon, could he speak,
Of necessary fitness?
Graceless! wilt thou deny thy parentage?
Andronicus, I will entreat the king;
That Angelo's a murderer; is 't not strange?
fool: drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will
A short alarum
Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,
That loved your father: the residue of your fortune,
But thou anon shalt hear of me again;
We thank your grace.
How dost thou, Charles?
And none of you will bid the winter come
Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may
Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
One of your lordship's pages.
I know him well: you are very welcome, sir,
I am no fee'd post, lady; keep your purse:
Good gentleman! the wrongs I have done thee stir
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
Be as cauterizing to the root o' the tongue,
Nothing will come of nothing: speak again.
O your sweet queen!
Hautboys and torches. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM,  DONALBAIN, BANQUO, LENNOX, MACDUFF, ROSS, ANGUS, and Attendants
Exit Gratiano
let no man take care for himself; for all is
Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint;
Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face,
This cloth thou dip'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
The praised of the king; who, so ennobled,
Of your great predecessor, King Edward the Third.
But list to me, my Humphrey, my sweet duke:
But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
To give some labourers room.
That cause, fair nephew, that imprison'd me
Justice! the law! my ducats, and my daughter!
Come, you shall have Trent turn'd.
Enter SIR ANDREW
Never afflict yourself to know the cause;
You stared upon me with ungentle looks;
But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant,
Fraught with the ministers and instruments
As to be hush'd and nought at all to say:
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Should find a running banquet ere they rested,
And he shall surety me. But for this lord,
Exeunt
troubles me, and the foolish fortune of this girl;
Here, Tamora, though grieved with killing grief.
Speak louder.
Having once this juice,
I fear thou'lt once more come again for ransom.
Well, my good lord; and as the only means
A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes
Go thou away:
Discourse is heavy, fasting; when we have supp'd,
To my house. Fare you well.
In such a business give me leave to use
Some loving friends convey the emperor hence,
Why, then fly on, I'll hunt thee for thy hide.
hotly call'd for;
Unfold the imagined happiness that both
They presently amend.
We may effect this business yet ere day.
Hold, hold; meanwhile here's money for thy charges.
Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus;
Heaven has an end in all: yet, you that hear me,
Gentle cousin,
Enter PERICLES, wet
counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man:
I think the duke will not be spoke withal.
Wherefore's this noise?
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
The dearest friend to me, the kindest man,
[Aside]  O, you are well tuned now!
The morn that I was wedded to her mother.
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
And God defend but still I should stand so,
My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
Sleep in their graves.
What say you? will you yield, and this avoid,
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
Though destiny say no. Be merry, gentle;
Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
Being mechanical, you ought not walk
And very welcome. Look, signior, here's your sister.
I'll make a fat pair of gallows; for if I hang, old
Enter Apothecary
And sent our sons and husbands captivate.
Sir, you and I have loved, but there's not it;
More laud than gilt o'er-dusted.
Where goes Cesario?
To the fire i' the blood: be more abstemious,
He sent in writing after me; what he would not,
Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
Thou hadst but power over his mortal body,
[Aside]  I do not like her. She doth think she has
To acquaint you with this evil, that you might
And buried one and twenty valiant sons,
Here will I rest me till the break of day.
Aside
there's no heed to be taken of them; if Caesar had
understand him, unless some one among us whom we
He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes;
Against his liking: think you it is so?
He thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders.
As Priam was for all his valiant sons.
But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
She shows a body rather than a life,
him, of as good as he; so he laughed and let me go.
Yea, at all points; and longs to enter in.
Let us alone to guard Corioli:
Exit
For my part, noble lords, I care not which;
hand-saw--ecce signum! I never dealt better since
Tell me of corn!
Hath follow'd certain men unto this house.
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
That so he might recover what was lost.
Rivers and Hastings, take each other's hand;
Hides the gold
Swearest thou, ungracious boy? henceforth ne'er look
ARIEL sings
And yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt
And ne'er be weary. Alcibiades,
Finish the process of his sandy hour,
And, but for ceremony, such a wretch,
[Within]  Qui est la?
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
Your aprons mountant: you are not oathable,
Ho! bid my trumpet sound!
Not able to produce more accusation
Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
What, this?
I know not why, except to get the land.
The Lady Constance in a frenzy died
Master Antipholus,--
Sad true lover never find my grave,
Though with their high wrongs I am struck to the quick,
Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion?
He hence removed last night and with more haste
To clustering filberts and sometimes I'll get thee
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
Alas, good lady!
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and VALERIA
Tarry, Jew:
But of all, the burst
And with the same to act controlling laws.
Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house and
But if I cannot win you to this love,
Not mad, but mated; how, I do not know.
Did I but speak thy deeds. What committed!
He's dead; and at the murderer's horse's tail,
God bless you, sir!
And here at hand the Dauphin and his train
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
But yesterday the word of Caesar might
Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe:
My lord, I fear,
Leonato and his brother. What thinkest thou? Had
We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,
Exeunt
of an ass, which is no great hurt.
But what it is, that is not yet known; what
of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen,
And know how we proceed.
Perchance because she knows them innocent.
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
The king will always think him in our debt,
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
Exeunt
That were some love but little policy.
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
my friends and the better for my foes.
no staying. In despite of the devils and hell, have
Get me some poison, Iago; this night: I'll not
Falstaff as he will chafe at the doctor's marrying
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
'Yea,' quoth my husband,'fall'st upon thy face?
Thanks, brave Montgomery; and thanks unto you all:
has left with thee: if this be a horseman's coat,
But nature to her bias drew in that.
A dram of worth be drawn.
Virtue preserved from fell destruction's blast,
place: at length they came to the broom-staff to
At Chertsey monastery this noble king,
Exeunt
That vulture in you, to devour so many
To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well:
Enter Pirates
To help thee curse that poisonous bunchback'd toad.
Enter a Lord
You sign your place and calling, in full seeming,
'Twas I won the wager, though you hit the white;
huge man, I should fear to drink at meals;
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will
For they must all be mask'd and vizarded,
to come to the mines; for, look you, the mines is
Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor; and John Car,
Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.
She's going away.
By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
As deep as that, though true.
To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber.
That breathed upon this earth a Christian;
Well contented.
Well, be't so, prithee.
Good den, brother.
That plotted thus our glory's overthrow?
myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was
My lord, where are you? what devise you on?
With carrion men, groaning for burial.
may drink thy tidings.
What shall I say? Where's satisfaction?
Gloucester's men rush at the Tower Gates, and WOODVILE the Lieutenant speaks within
Exeunt
SCENE I. Saint Alban's.
What is the body when the head is off?
Ay, he: he offered to cut a caper at the
their swords to pawn. Follow me, lads of peace;
My sword i' the life-blood of thee else. My lords,
As many arrows, loosed several ways,
If these be motives weak, break off betimes,
Why, am I dead? do I not breathe a man?
Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love:
Within my tent his bones to-night shall lie,
Would sink and overwhelm you. Away!
What poor an instrument
Then go with me to make the matter good.
Or else our spell is marr'd.
I pray you, air, as you sit at dinner:
To give me conquer'd Egypt for my son,
Nothing acquainted with these businesses;
When waterdrops have worn the stones of Troy,
That mortal ears might hardly endure the din?
hurt done!
Tutus Aufidius, is he within your walls?
Praise him that got thee, she that gave thee suck:
Hath so exasperate the king that he
Giving a paper
'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; tis time you were
When night-dogs run, all sorts of deer are chased.
Than when thou wert protector to thy King.
Well, call them again. I am not made of stone,
Enter VALERIA, with an Usher and Gentlewoman
That which none else can utter. By this marriage,
Bring in thy ranks, but leave without thy rage:
The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it
Of lineaments, of manners and of spirit;
What treason there is mingled with your love.
But then more 'why?' why have they dared to march
The liker you; few taller are so young.
Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
This is Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein; a lover is
I extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiar
I think he'll hear me. Yet, to bite his lip
What do you think me?
Hath not in nature's mystery more science
What you have underta'en to do in's absence.
They of those marches, gracious sovereign,
Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?
And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss;
And I should be obscured.
The greater cantle of the world is lost
I tell thee, Jack Cade the clothier means to dress
at Milford-Haven: what your own love will out of
foolish-hanging of thy nether lip, that doth warrant
Exit
Who 'twas that so endured, with his strong arms
glory of my overthrow: if I can cross him any way, I
Action and accent did they teach him there;
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
Whither to go and what to bear with us;
Believe me, lords, were none more wise than I--
To purge this field of such a hilding foe,
For beauty lives with kindness.
In England work your grace's full content.
And call these foul offenders to their answers
May you be happy in your wish, my lord
He seizes her
Enter a third Gentleman
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
looked sadly, it was for want of money: and now you
I never had to do with wicked spirits:
And mine, to eke out hers.
My lord, I hear.
And thereby hangs a tale.' When I did hear
Sing in our sweet lullaby;
I cannot conceive you.
Parted our fellowship--But, hark! a sail.
If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
Yet I have faced it with a card of ten.
As to your soul seems good. Give me your hand:
Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas;
ever and a day.
Look, with what courteous action
Away with him!
What's thy name?
As haggerds of the rock.
If they have overheard me now, why, hanging.
A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
The union of your bed with weeds so loathly
Exeunt OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
We are hither come to offer you our service.
be sad. Did he not say, my brother was fled?
[Aside]  Short summers lightly have a forward spring.
ACT III
better stead thee than now. Put money in thy
Nor purposed merit in futurity,
And you, sir. I have been with your father, and
Because we know, on Valentine's report,
Hercules, master.
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
To BRABANTIO
How much unlike art thou to Portia!
Hag-seed, hence!
These broken limbs again into one body;
Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting,
Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth:
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.
To tumble down thy husband and thyself
sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of
Known and allied to yours.
And all the faith, the virtue of my heart,
Because I am the store-house and the shop
'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit:' 'Just,' said she, 'it
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
Thy crystal window ope; look out;
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Ay me! says one; O Jove! the other cries;
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
Will you make haste?
Your majesty's good thoughts away from me!
Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me;
Peace be at your labour, honest fishermen.
Why, do you not know him?
Even like an o'ergrown lion in a cave,
outlive that day to see His greatness and to teach
These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!
To who?
The water nectar and the rocks pure gold.
Arm, wenches, arm! encounters mounted are
I noted her not; but I looked on her.
And that his country's dearer than himself;
And, to deal plainly,
stealing, fighting--Hark you now! Would any but
Where is Nan now and her troop of fairies, and the
Or, for my diamond, the chain you promised,
Where thou mayst knock a nail into his bead.
for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor
The cry of Talbot serves me for a sword;
when he would have walked ten mile a-foot to see a
What's your will?
the harder: ch'ill be plain with you.
For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
his chin: indeed, she has a marvellous white hand, I
Should he 'scape Hector fair: if he were foil'd,
God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heart-burned.
Her name is Margery, indeed: I'll be sworn, if thou
Lord Saturnine; whose virtues will, I hope,
to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the
Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me!
Snug, the joiner; you, the lion's part: and, I
I do desire it.
We will extenuate rather than enforce:
The duke does greet you, general,
No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
Perchance he's hurt i' the battle.
Enter CLEOPATRA, attended
The head is not more native to the heart,
Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed:
Where are they?
politic love.
While other men, of slender reputation,
A good construction. I raised him, and I pawn'd
An age of discord and continual strife?
Exit
Whom I employ'd was pre-employ'd by him:
fool make a third, where he shall find the letter:
And from that torment I will free myself,
shall see him.
The immortal gods that hear you,--spare your oaths,
Thou pardon me my wrongs. But how should Prospero
As duly, but not as truly,
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
A great while ago the world begun,
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
Unto the legions on the other side.
beggar. Then have we here young Dizy, and young
Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.
This to Apollo; this to the god of war;
prithee, call in Falstaff: I'll play Percy, and
Enter CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
Which casket 'twas I chose; next, if I fail
Nothing, my lord.
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
I' the sway of your own will. Is he array'd?
thou art lovely. More fairer than fair, beautiful
For any benefit that points to me,
And throw their power i' the dust.
Comes not that blood as modest evidence
Yes; I do think that you might pardon him,
Exit
No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.
By rule of knighthood, I disdain and spurn:
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.
And she lies buried with her ancestors;
Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
To crush our old limbs in ungentle steel:
Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffer'd love.
Will conquer him! awake, and win the day!
Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud
my speech, for besides that it is excellently well
That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that
Thou art a robber,
Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.
Our discontented counties do revolt;
But believe you this, my lord, that, not long ago,
The very trick on't.
Let him to field; Troilus, alas! hath none.
The offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel,
Gramercy, lovely Lucius: what's the news?
To shape my legs of an unequal size;
The slave, a member of the country's peace,
Conceives by me! How likes Hortensio that?
by your father.
To see such lovers, Thurio, as yourself:
Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal; 'tis no sin for a
What you would work me to, I have some aim:
Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent;
foot-land rakers, no long-staff sixpenny strikers,
What we so fear'd he had a charge to do.
One rubb'd his elbow thus, and fleer'd and swore
And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper,
And like me to the peasant boys of France,
Do you amend it then; it lies in you:
Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command.
Beguiled all spies.
We sucking on her natural bosom find,
for me here to-day? much upon this time have
are out. He tells me flatly, there is no mercy for
Deserve as full as fortunate a bed
In most accepted pain.
In that each of you have forsworn his book,
touching the hit it?
Or any creeping venom'd thing that lives!
I would not have you, lord, forget yourself,
This weaves itself perforce into my business.
Welcome father.
How! the prince is a Jack, a sneak-cup: 'sblood, an
Horn-mad, thou villain!
could see the puppets dallying.
I yet beseech your majesty,--
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
And that's a wonder: fathers commonly
[Aside]  How all the other passions fleet to air,
Nor the all-dreaded thunder-stone;
At any time, to grace my stratagems.
there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a
As traitors do.
To have mistrusted her: yet, O my daughter!
First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats
Exeunt
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms
In verity you did; my bones bear witness,
the duller parts:
About the wood go swifter than the wind,
But yet thou shalt have freedom: so, so, so.
'Tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion;
All his successors gone before him hath done't; and
Thunder and lightning. Enter from opposite sides, CASCA, with his sword drawn, and CICERO
I thank your worship: God be wi' you!
borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman and
I do confess my fault;
This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings;
Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so
They are all in order and march toward us.
The time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow
Engenders the black toad and adder blue,
That, when I note another man like him,
And, come, I will go get a leaf of brass,
That's your device.
Beggars, that come unto my father's door,
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
To our pavilion shall I lead you, sir.
And, for an onset, Titus, to advance
head; that he gives entrance to such companions?
That which in mean men we intitle patience
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
And not a hair upon a soldier's head
Stay not; fly, whilst thou art blest and free:
Mock not, Enobarbus.
Doth teach me answers for deliverance!
To be the father unto many sons.
Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
On the tabour to the Worthies, and let them dance the hay.
To PROCULEIUS and the Guard
Exeunt all except APEMANTUS
Ah, Joan, this kills thy father's heart outright!
'Tis best thou diest quickly.
In remembrance of a shroud.
And partly credit things that do presage.
shall have no strength to repent. An I have not
You breathe in vain.
To lose an oath to win a paradise?
There is no truth at all i' the oracle:
Why then, the mustard without the beef.
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
Retire, we have engaged ourselves too far:
With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
Exit
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
And now I give my sensual race the rein:
Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight;
Of that there's none, or little.
No more a soldier: bruised pieces, go;
speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
No better than the earth he lies upon,
In right and service of their noble country
And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
Her highness is in safety, fear you not:
I'd set my ten commandments in your face.
in his dominion, could not be so cruel to me, as
Talkers are no good doers: be assured
Nerissa there her clerk: Lorenzo here
And ne'er a true one.
well, and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect
Which out of daily fortune ever taints
Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen.
In my most ill-composed affection such
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
O, God's will! much better
[Starting up]  No assure you; the wall is down that
Scots, Douglas, that runs o' horseback up a hill
To give or to forgive; but when we have stuff'd
Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms
pickle-herring! How now, sot!
Nay, come, your hands and lips must seal it too:
Shall so wear out to nought. Dost thou know me?
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
gods great harm in their women; for in every ten
As true as truest horse that yet would never tire,
than as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness:
Although not valued to the money's worth.
This, I presume, will wake him.
Why to give over, I pray you? is it a shame to get
To the conflicting elements exposed,
To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion.
There is no force in the decrees of Venice.
A nobler man, a braver warrior,
In little room confining mighty men,
And travelling along this coast, I here am come by chance,
She says your worship means to make
By heaven, I do not, I do not, gentlemen.
Sweet health and fair desires consort your grace!
The trap is laid for me!
It is not that that hath incensed the duke:
Which, at more leisure, I will so excuse
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
No.
Be you my time to bring it to some shape.
liable, congruent and measurable for the afternoon:
Enter KING LEAR, Fool, and Gentleman
look your grace, has struck the glove which your
Ay, fool.
Of wondrous virtues: sometimes from her eyes
Pretty soul! she durst not lie
This is not well, rash and unbridled boy.
He will not fight with me, Domitius.
How now, wool-sack! what mutter you?
Whereby they live: and though that all at once,
his first approach before my lady: he will come to
As roused with rage with rage doth sympathize,
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
I pray, awake, sir: if you love the maid,
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
You suddenly arose, and walk'd about,
Be confident to speak, Northumberland:
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
To the Capitol, come:
Ha! ha! Alas, poor wretch! ah, poor capocchia!
O Lord, sir! There's a simple putting off. More,
you.
But now I find I had suborn'd the witness,
Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear:
he have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a
And his and mine loved darling.
Their thimbles into armed gauntlets change,
pausing
He is in Rome.
ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it
with interchange of gifts, letters, loving
These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
He counsels a divorce; a loss of her
The violence of either thee becomes,
as a doornail, I pray God I may never eat grass more.
As may beseem some well-reputed page.
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
Unstate his happiness, and be staged to the show,
You we first seize on.
Satisfy me so.
But mantled in your own.
For every word: he is so kind that he now
To entreat your majesty to visit him.
And leave not one alive, I live in hell.
husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.'
Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
So, on your patience evermore attending,
Mount thou my horse, and hide thy spurs in him,
I'll rant as well as thou.
Tell me, good grandam, is our father dead?
We have conversed and spent our hours together:
Pray, sir, by your good favour,--for surely, sir, a
In thy hand clutch'd as many millions, in
The king is angry: see, he bites the lip.
Reads
For France hath flaw'd the league, and hath attach'd
Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not
Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
chapped hands and threw up their sweaty night-caps
Enter WARWICK
Which oft infects the wisest: these, my lord,
There was a man--
I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb,
Exit one with the Players
Loath to depose the child, Your brother's son;
My master is of churlish disposition
So much applauded through the realm of France?
Will you think so?
Sole daughter unto Lionel Duke of Clarence:
Trebonius: mark well Metellus Cimber: Decius Brutus
How well resembles it the prime of youth,
Is that the naked fellow?
affection; by mine honour, I will; and when I break
So are you.
That never aim'd so high to love your daughter,
And stolen the impression of her fantasy
Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing
blind Cupid.
A peevish schoolboy, worthless of such honour,
So I do: what's the matter?
Hang him instantly.
And quickly bring us word of England's fall.
and horror of it: pray you, away.
Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops,
Marry, amen!
The cardinal!
Exit Chamberlain; and KING HENRY VIII draws the curtain, and sits reading pensively
In every lineament, branch, shape, and form:
could not have owed her a more rooted love.
And thou shalt find me at the governor's.
The most arch of piteous massacre
Sleeping or waking? mad or well-advised?
marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a very good
I'll give my reasons,
Are richly come to harbour suddenly:
My father hath a reason for't.
Leonato's: commend me to him and tell him I will
What other harm have I, good lady, done,
O Antony!
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false, If she be.
A housewife that by selling her desires
draw as soon as another man, if I see occasion in a
Exeunt TITUS, MARCUS, and LAVINIA
Therefore to's seemeth it a needful course,
Lamentable! What,
And for that offence
And meeting here the other messenger,
and good plays prove the better by the help of good
But by your setting on, by your consent?
And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents,
I am not married, Caesar: let me hear
Come, what talk you
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
Where my son lies. When did you lose your daughter?
loose-wived, so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a
No, not much moved:
figures out of your husband's brains. If they can
Shall have the fame. I have heard that Julius Caesar
For each true word, a blister! and each false
If in Naples
To-night she is mew'd up to her heaviness.
The fold stands empty in the drowned field,
For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
I embrace it freely;
Read them; and know, I know your worthiness.
one Deformed: they say be wears a key in his ear and
Not for the world, fair madam, by my will.
That none but fools would keep: a breath thou art,
The burthen of my sorrows fall upon ye.
More near my life, I fear,--with my weak wit,
He's gone, but his wife's kill'd.
And you by land.
My reason all the same; and they are ready
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and Servingmen
As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die,
'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the
I something fear my father's wrath; but nothing--
Or else he never would compare between.
Make an extent upon his house and lands:
Do you mark that?
And oped their arms to embrace me as a friend.
As cherry is to cherry.
What, think you then the king shall be deposed?
accustomed crossness.
Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's
After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
And be you kings, command, and I'll obey.
Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war
Now, if you love me, stay.
I fear'd to show my father Julia's letter,
My innocent life against an emperor.
him the fair Desdemona, unless his abode be
To look into the blots and stains of right:
And claim her with a loving kiss.
I mean, to man, he had not apprehension
That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither;
Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop
Enter GONERIL
Eleanor, the law, thou see'st, hath judged thee:
Carouse full measure to her maidenhead,
In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me
Grandsire, 'tis Ovid's Metamorphoses;
He said he had wounds, which he could show
A message well sympathized; a horse to be ambassador
stagger in this attempt; for here we have no temple
To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
So saucy with the hand of she here,--what's her name,
I think there's no man speaks better Welsh.
'Because thou canst not ease thy smart
To VIOLA
And, though I kill him not, I am the cause
Therefore, most gracious duke, with thy command
Enter FALSTAFF
your honour.
Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
Why, my pretty youth?
But let them hear what fearful words I utter.
Winchester goose, I cry, a rope! a rope!
Falstaff: him keep with, the rest banish. And tell
Do you desire?
Hath stay'd upon some favour that it loves:
I'll follow instantly.
Enter BUCKINGHAM, DERBY, HASTINGS, the BISHOP OF  ELY, RATCLIFF, LOVEL, with others, and take their seats at a table
The king's not here.
Well, my good lord.
Though his bark cannot be lost,
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
Under this conjuration, speak, my lord;
I am a fool
Whose voices I desire aloud with mine:
The trumpets show the emperor is at hand.
his cowardship, ask Fabian.
Fold down the leaf where I have left: to bed:
Shouldst thou but hear I were licentious
After these ways; so, it will make us mad.
I trust I may not trust thee; for thy word
I am fearful: wherefore frowns he thus?
should buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
Best in all Athens: thou'rt, indeed, the best;
And would have armour here out of the Tower,
To give you gentle pass; for, if we may,
'If this fall into thy hand, revolve. In my stars I
Truly, the souls of men are full of dread:
endanger my soul gratis? At a word, hang no more
What wouldst thou have, boor? what: thick-skin?
SCENE II. A street.
Sir, the duke's pleasure is, that you keep Costard
He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell
But more of that anon. Take him aside.
To die before you please!
Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
His secret murders sticking on his hands;
For Hector in his blaze of wrath subscribes
That holds his honour higher than his ease,
Tush, thou art deceived:
Lusty and like to live: the queen receives
Come not near our fairy queen.
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Acquaint my daughter no further with any thing you
Riding, her fortunes brought the maid aboard us,
Hail, Caesar, and my lord! hail, most dear Caesar!
But they shall find, awaked in such a kind,
Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter.
A man, the worst about you.
To give the world assurance of a man:
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
How painted? and how out of count?
I will with patience hear, and find a time
meaning, 'resolutely:' his meaning is good.
Say I she is not fair?
herrings; the husband's the bigger: I am indeed not
Arise my knights o' the battle: I create you
In measure rein thy joy; scant this excess.
Full merrily the humble-bee doth sing,
Grace go with you, Benedicite!
My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd,
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
I'll see it truly done, my Lord of York.
I' the right and strength o' the commons,' be it either
Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
It shall be full of poise and difficult weight
I bear unto the banish'd Valentine,
Be not acknown on 't; I have use for it.
Such sense, that my sense breeds with it. Fare you well.
No, my noble lord;
What being more known grows worse, to smother it.
In Ilion, on your Greekish embassy.
horns, Master Brook: and, Master Brook, he hath
Drinks
he vent Trinculos?
O, if thou grant my need,
For let our finger ache, and it indues
And say 'Long live our Emperor Saturnine!'
I speak from certainties. Nay, more,
With the consent of supreme Jove, inform
And gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
Here's all that is left living of your queen,
Enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
With age and altering rheums? can he speak? hear?
Even in the lusty havior of his son.
At Antium.
Will never let come forth.
My lord it shall be done.
She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
I would they were abed!
To bend the fatal instruments of war
hanging, yields a careful man work.
Affliction alters.
To die in ruffian battle? Even at this sight
Exit
Without defeat. Therefore to France, my liege.
Seizes and disarms her
And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous,--
Now sits the wind fair, and we will aboard.
And draw you into madness? think of it:
Was ever, to do well: nor is there living,
Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.
Let me not hold my tongue, let me not, Hubert;
Then I am yours.
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear;
Leave off delays, and let us raise the siege.
Was Cressid here?
Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
Excellent, madame!
Allow their officers and are content
Since every worth in show commends itself.
Whereas reproof, obedient and in order,
Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
Gorged with the dearest morsel of the earth,
proud of heart, to ride on a bay trotting-horse over
The envious barking of your saucy tongue
Who, I rob? I a thief? not I, by my faith.
By Jove,
Which I can call but now, I have heard strange news.
Fatal this marriage, cancelling your fame,
[Reads]
Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
at the gate?
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
Were publicly enthroned: at the feet sat
This shall determine that.
Give me thy hand,
That's a degree to love.
And with his hat, thus waving it in scorn,
wench, as touching the hit it.
Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino.
Whilst that Lavinia 'tween her stumps doth hold
Strong and fasten'd villain
shall have my pocket picked? I have lost a
and though the devil lead the measure, such are to
And baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts
Takes hold of the hand of the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
Richard loves Richard; that is, I am I.
taught me how to know a man in love; in which cage
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
Wrench his sword from him.
[Within]   Anon, anon.
You, madam, for you are more nobly born,
Well said, well said; the fire and cloths.
four times. Now I, to comfort him, bid him a'
Thou hast contrived against the very life
The great assay of art; but at his touch--
It is a creature that I teach to fight,
Fly, to revenge my death, if I be slain.
You taught me how to know the face of right,
And bring you back, charming the narrow seas
For I shall never hold that man my friend
dismount thy tuck, be yare in thy preparation, for
Looking the way her harmless young one went,
When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
A servant that he bred, thrill'd with remorse,
at such a convoy; who came off bravely, who was
Thy match was mortal to him, and pure grief
On whose bright crest Fame with her loud'st Oyes
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
'Tis your noblest course.
To you, the liver, heart and brain of Britain,
I know no pain they can inflict upon him
She knew his love, lest she make sport at it.
My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys,
My lord, you once did love me.
We have beat him to his camp: run one before,
As thou shalt be, if thou didst kill this child.
Who hath been still a giddy neighbour to us;
This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
Hast moved us: what seest thou in our looks?
It was my breath that blew this tempest up,
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
Come, let us go; and pray to all the gods
Enter OTHELLO
For pity of mine age, whose youth was spent
Yes, my lord, yes; he at Philippi kept
And for thy maintenance commits his body
That thou for truth givest out are landed here?
One sin, I know, another doth provoke;
From henceforth bear his name whose form thou bear'st:
You must begin, 'Will you, Orlando--'
report--after fourteen years' purchase.
Dream on, dream on, of bloody deeds and death:
come out. Ha! bots on't, 'tis come at last, and
it: and, to stop up the displeasure he hath
But I in danger for the breach of law.
To undertake the death of all the world,
Doth turn oh! oh! to ha! ha! he!
Myself, as far as I could well discern
him, nor any way sustain him.
There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet
Why, this that I speak of.
Alarum: excursions. Enter TALBOT led by a Servant
Do not prove me so;
And watch'd the time to shoot.
Hast thou no care of me? shall I abide
These words are razors to my wounded heart.
So do I wish the crown, being so far off;
These happen'd accidents; till when, be cheerful
The direful spectacle of the wreck, which touch'd
The fearful French, whom you late vanquished,
See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
I must serve him so too, tell him of an intent
To take advantage of the absent time
With ample and brim fulness of his force,
bids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum,
At what o'clock to-morrow
off.
And piteous plainings of the pretty babes,
my suit. Give me your answer; i' faith, do: and so
A confidence sans bound. He being thus lorded,
Nor how it may concern my modesty,
To know what willing ransom he will give.
Must he needs trouble me in 't,--hum!--'bove
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
fellow by the leg.
To the hearers, sir.
Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.
Crowned with faith and constant loyalty.
Be with my hopes abroad. I should be still
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
The king's will be perform'd!
Where's Dolabella,
Here, as I point my sword, the sun arises,
As is deliver'd to your majesty:
Exit PRINCE HENRY
I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited
Say, ay; and of a boy.
And makest me call what I intend to do
Each minute, some.
Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile:
Well, for this night we will repose us here:
With a more larger list of sceptres.
Nay, hear me, Isabel.
So please you, save the thanks this prince expects:
Knocking
SCENE III. A public place.
And bring away the armour that is there.
my daughter; which, in the minority of them both,
ANTIPHOLUS
Leaving no heir begotten of his body--
That caves and womby vaultages of France
For trust not him that hath once broken faith,--
Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
Exeunt
To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
And, daughter, yours.
My heart is heavy and mine age is weak;
And surer bind this knot of amity,
Exit AEdile
By this so sickened their estates, that never
As you have done my truth. If he know
Modest as Justice, and thou seem'st a palace
By no means, sir: Time travels in divers paces with
How many score of miles may we well ride
ACT II
Exeunt
Enter EGLAMOUR
Why, thou owest God a death.
A virtue that was never seen in you.
And that to hear an old man sing
Where now half tales be truths: her love to both
And to the field goes he; where every flower
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof.
I fear it much; and I do fear besides,
And let us presently go sit in council,
What, and wouldst climb a tree?
Yet something leads me forth.
Half my love with him, half my care and duty:
Of his superior, grows to an envious fever
He professes to have received no sinister measure
Enter BANQUO
Her and her virtues, I cannot forget
But she is dead.
After him, fellows; bring him to the block.
And passed sentence may not be recall'd
Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
But we in silence hold this virtue well,
I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
My dear lord,--
We should have else desired your good advice,
It is the shameful work of Hubert's hand;
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
His deputy anointed in His sight,
By ruffian lust should be contaminate!
Sir,
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee,
Necessity will make us all forsworn
The packet, Cromwell.
Exeunt
Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
Enter BRANDON, a Sergeant-at-arms before him, and two or three of the Guard
The old priest of Saint Luke's church is at your
Ay, my lord cardinal? how think you by that?
The yards and bowsprit, would I flame distinctly,
Exceeding the nine sibyls of old Rome:
pridge, I think in my very conscience he is as
The senators of Athens greet thee, Timon.
That if again this apparition come,
Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted
Religiously they ask a sacrifice:
But you, that are polluted with your lusts,
I never heard any soldier dislike it.
Flowing and swelling o'er with arts and exercise:
matter merrily set down, or a very pleasant thing
In the divorce his contrary proceedings
Fool!
Return with welcome home from banishment.
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
Our dukedom till God please to send the rest.
And live a coward in thine own esteem,
With his unkindness? say't be so?
And with no face, as 'twere, outfacing me,
Indeed the top of admiration! worth
Came he not home to-night?
I will confirm with oath; which, I doubt not,
open't. What's within, boy?
That ever yet they heard.
Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
That you may know you shall not want, one word.
Your tenants, friends and neighbouring gentlemen.
And buried once, why not upon my head?
and, I think, hath appointed them contrary places;
Forward by nature, enemy to peace;
Exeunt, leading off MELUN
Leaps down
In pruning me? When shall you hear that I
Divides more wider than the sky and earth,
With powerful policy strengthen themselves,
Such as the shortness of the time can shape;
The by-gone day proclaim'd: say this to him,
Saw you my daughter?
What should she remember?
Sir, I will eat no meat, I'll not drink, sir;
'Faith, for the worst is filthy; and would not hold
Dally not with the gods, but get thee gone.
What will hap more to-night, safe 'scape the king!
flattered the people, who ne'er loved them; and there
Courtsied when you have and kiss'd
Here they fight. CADE falls
I can be patient; I can stay with Regan,
O, sir, you are deceived.
Be in their flowing cups freshly remember'd.
friend here in necessity and denying him; and for
Will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming,
admit no discourse to your beauty.
Am better than thy dear self's better part.
Immediately he was upon his knee,
Exit
With several applications; nature and sickness
To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
your people,
Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
sup a flea.
Hold up thy head, vile Scot, or thou art like
Derived from Edward, his great-grandfather.
Was to be so unwise, to be so kind.
Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.
Write, write, that from the bloody course of war
She shall be, to the happiness of England,
yesty collection, which carries them through and
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
What, must I hold a candle to my shames?
Thy tooth is not so keen,
No.
Exeunt Arragon and train
Smacks it not something of the policy?
eloquence, nor I have no cunning in protestation;
Let none think flattery, for they'll find 'em truth.
Dashes the glass against the ground
What, shall we stab him as he sleeps?
The head of Cade, whom I in combat slew.
As to annoy us all: which to prevent,
Where is the master, boatswain?
To be i' the field, and ask 'what news?' of me!
And hast thou kill'd him sleeping? O brave touch!
You come not home because you have no stomach;
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead
Matter against me; and his eye reviled
As I conceive the journey, be at the Mount
go to the ale with a Christian. Wilt thou go?
I am agreed; and would I had given him the best
Not this, but troubles of the marriage-bed.
To lie in watch there and to think on him?
Error i' the bill, sir; error i' the bill.
and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges
To-morrow, cousin Percy, you and I
The illness should attend it: what thou wouldst highly,
Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour,
I came to her from Claudio, and desired her
It skills not greatly who impugns our doom.
Or yield up Aquitaine.
And rest your gentle head upon her lap,
grace say so: and, my lord, he speaks most vilely
And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us.
Noble Menenius,
Enter ARTHUR, on the walls
What, are ye daunted now? now will ye stoop?
'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind;
Yes, madam; but I think your grace,
Claudio; and bring them to see this the very night
Ill will never said well.
Where shall I find you?
Exeunt Host and BARDOLPH
Ordain'd our laws, whose use the sword of Caesar
horns upon his head, for a branch of victory. Have
Alas, poor man!
against her heir.
Mine enemy has more power.
Then, O you blessed ministers above,
She must lie here on mere necessity.
what is thy name? discuss.
'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
Their softest touch as smart as lizards' sting!
And when you do them--
Descends
And your large speeches may your deeds approve,
Enter WARWICK, the Mayor of Coventry, two Messengers, and others upon the walls
I do not bid thee beg my life, good lad;
And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
But how wilt thou do for a father?
There shall we consummate our spousal rites.
The current that with gentle murmur glides,
A kind heart he hath: a woman would run through
Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear.
dinner; but one that lies three thirds and uses a
Thou movest no less with thy complaining than
These are the ushers of Marcius: before him he
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
Or with light skirmishes enfeebled.
Conceive, and fare thee well.
Who can accuse me? wherein am I guilty?
The sight whereof I think you had from me,
Yes, madam, he was of that consort.
Yes, in truth it is, sir.
Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you
My advocation is not now in tune;
They lose it that do buy it with much care:
As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
Unless his noble mother, and his wife;
I will praise an eel with the same praise.
What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
But, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow;
Sodden business! there's a stewed phrase indeed!
beaten myself into all the colours of the rainbow;
To hear from me you had left Antony,
O, let me view his visage, being dead,
our pleasure to fail, and then will they adventure
So might your grace's person be in danger.
a bird? who would give a bird the lie, though he cry
A noble servant to them; but he could not
Have I not hideous death within my view,
At your choice, sir.
Would blow me to an ague, when I thought
What's the matter?
What colour are your eyebrows?
I grant; as there may between the lists and the
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
That his contempt shall not be bruising to you,
But by self-danger, you should tread a course
by my villany, which did confirm any slander that
That the great figure of a council frames
That Angelo's forsworn; is it not strange?
Even in a dream, were we divided from them
Half-part, mates, half-part.
Were't not affection chains thy tender days
To have a godly peace concluded of
thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
correction, there is not many of your nation--
Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this
That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward's,
Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we
Marry, for that she's in a wrong belief,
Let in that amity which you have made;
dauphin of France? Be it known unto thee by these
ACT I
Good night, Lord Brutus.
That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
To mine own room again; making so bold,
Those be rubies, fairy favours,
Such as I can, twice o'er, I'll weep and sigh;
SCENE III. A park near the palace.
To Agamemnon: go we to him straight.
When Prospero is destroyed.
And when fair Cressid comes into my thoughts,--
[Advancing]  How shall I murder him, Iago?
Reads
The English force, so please you.
I pray thee, moralize them.
I know it well, sir; you have an exchequer of words,
Ay, Edward will use women honourably.
Claudio die to-morrow or no?
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
'Tis sport to maul a runner.
Where that and other specialties are bound:
Came they not by you?
And craves no other tribute at thy hands
Thy dukedom I resign and do entreat
To Poet
And it hath pleased him that three times to-day
honesty to acquaint the king withal, I would not
thief; for the poor abuses of the time want
Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array.
She did, my lord, when Valentine was here.
I never hated thee: I have seen thee fight,
The presenters above speak
Madam Silvia! Madam Silvia!
No man knows whither.
And in record, left them the heirs of shame.
How now! interjections? Why, then, some be of
Drove him to this.
Sweet lady, ho, ho.
With Rivers, Vaughan, Grey: and so 'twill do
'tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on, and for
Enter a Clown, with a basket, and two pigeons in it
There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.
What means my niece Lavinia by these signs?
properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
Do you think I will?
To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.
Here, here's gold for thee.
Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry?
too little for pomp to enter: some that humble
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
Grey of Northumberland, this same is yours:
Beginning in the middle, starting thence away
Merry and tragical! tedious and brief!
By all the operation of the orbs
The world's large spaces cannot parallel.
Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between
Your fame forever.
That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
Every elf and fairy sprite
You should have fear'd false times when you did feast:
Six frozen winter spent,
Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men,
With all their honourable point of ignorance
Which you on all estates will execute
Enter Thisbe
Transform us not to women.
A falsehood in its contrary as great
arms and heads, chopped off in battle, shall join
That I am dog-weary: but at last I spied
Exit Provost
That thou mightst think upon these by the seal,
The man I am.
Is he among these?
In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom
And I loved her that she did pity them.
Exeunt
Exit DOCTOR CAIUS
Sweet poetry and Tully's Orator.
That have inflamed desire in my breast
Thou speakest wiser than thou art ware of.
To-morrow then I will expect your coming;
In such a business.
No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel;
A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile
Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
I have seen better faces in my time
Reveal yourself to him.
Thy sons make pillage of her chastity
Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.
Where we may take him and disgrace him for it.
[Aside to ISABELLA]  O, to him, to him, wench! he
Fair lovers, you are fortunately met:
you are reverend grave men, yet they lie deadly that
If it proves so, then loving goes by haps:
Better than you yourself. Therefore, I pray you,
Some six miles off the duke is with the soldiers;
That's even as fair as--at hand, quoth the
Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of
Do you not hear, fellows? Take away the lady.
I may, and will, if she be so contented:
Carry his water to the wise woman.
This by Calpurnia's dream is signified.
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
all, dies for him.
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
SCENE III. The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
Enter OBERON and TITANIA with their train
And with loud 'larums welcome them to Rome.
deceived me. How melancholies I am! I will knog
A most acute juvenal; voluble and free of grace!
Pray you, come in;
To make her heavenly comforts of despair,
That thou nor none of thine shall be let in.
Twenty-three years, and saw myself unbreech'd,
Alcibiades. Go; thou wast born a bastard, and thou't
And bring us word unto Octavius' tent
To woo a maid in way of marriage: Lastly,
Though thou didst learn, had that in't which
him for his fault the other day, he did vow upon his
for that I insinuate, or toaze from thee thy
ACT IV
I found not Cassio's kisses on her lips:
Plucking the grass, to know where sits the wind,
I' the midst o' the body, idle and unactive,
Were for myself: and so, my lord, adieu.
Live with authority: so soon we shall drive back
To see the making of her carcanet,
Of the good queen, but the sharp thorny points
The storm is up, and all is on the hazard.
Or count them happy that enjoy the sun?
English tailor come hither, for stealing out of
What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is
What is his reputation with the duke?
And slaughter'd those that were the means to help him;
Cut off the proud'st conspirator that lives.
What are we, Apemantus?
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
Of butcher'd princes fight in thy behalf
Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,
Proceed.
For, lords, to-morrow is a busy day.
In us, that are our own great deputy
To fight with Talbot: as he march'd along,
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
And do not play in wench-like words with that
though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.
You said the enemy would not come down,
He raised the house with loud and coward cries.
I have a pain upon my forehead here.
The crown of England, father, which is yours.
be a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a
Thou lovest me not; for, brother, if thou didst,
Envied against the people, seeking means
It greets me as an enterprise of kindness
What a blunt fellow is this grown to be!
Turn then my freshest reputation to
Our part therein we banish with yourselves--
Shoots buck and doe:
Some certain edicts and some strait decrees
Thomas Cromwell;
Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds,
I have but this to say,
She could not sway her house, command her followers,
More pangs and fears than wars or women have:
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
Why, what have you to do whither they bear it? You
mirth: he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's
Paris and Troilus, you have both said well,
And in their ears tell them my dreadful name,
I know no further:
Do, my lord.
And if he stand on hostage for his safety,
Nor none so bad, but it may well be told.
Born in Northamptonshire and eldest son,
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part:
Be not as common fools; if you are not,
I did not think he had been acquainted with her.
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
He shall appear in proof.
Friend,
That makes me reasonless to reason thus?
For 'twas indeed his colour, but he came
imagination blows him.
By seven o'clock I'll get you such a ladder.
'Tis my fault, Master Page: I suffer for it.
And say 'Tis true,' I'ld not believe them more
And sends allegiance and true faith of heart
Moe things like men! Eat, Timon, and abhor them.
But where thou art not known, why, there they show
Your children were vexation to your youth,
Nay, but he'll be here presently: let's go dress him
What, think you much to pay two thousand crowns,
cannot be so neither: yes, it is so, it is so, it
This present object made probation.
Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides;
'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
Of smiling peace to march a bloody host,
Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,
March patiently along: let one be sent
That burn by day and night: and then I loved thee
seven years
Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.
It will be well.
O Lord, sir! spare not me.
But misery: I know 'tis from Cordelia,
This haste hath wings indeed.
We'll lead you thither.
With these our late-deceased emperor's sons:
I seek not to wax great by others' waning,
salad, or rather, the herb of grace.
And say I spoke with you.
Why, what wouldst thou do there before I go?
Your majestee ave fausse French enough to deceive de
I do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade
I have his horse to take up the quarrel:
the skirts of it, and beat me to death with a bottom
great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house
No.
Your joys with like relation. Go together,
But not intentively: I did consent,
What I shall die to want. But this is trifling;
No.
What says he to your daughter? have you spoke?
Draws
It is backed like a weasel.
There is so hot a summer in my bosom,
Do not extort thy reasons from this clause,
Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments;
When he was brought again to the bar, to hear
His marks of merit, wounds received for's country.
'Tis you must dig with mattock and with spade,
knowest her not?
the third time; I hope good luck lies in odd
Leave them as naked as the vulgar air.
Who, as you say, took pains to get this son,
Come, you look paler and paler: pray you, draw
Although she lave them hourly in the flood.
Why, then, God forgive me!
Am I but three inches? why, thy horn is a foot; and
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
Work not so hard: I would the lightning had
Under their sweet shade, Aaron, let us sit,
If not Achilles? Though't be a sportful combat,
Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;
'Tis sworn between us we shall ever strike
Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,
And he her dieter.
And then you would have tarried. Hark!
Your betters, sir.
I meant to rectify my conscience,--which
woman with picking thy pocket! why, thou whoreson,
Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,
Exit
if you break one jot of your promise or come one
And, all my powers, address your love and might
Killing them twice. O, give us leave, great king,
Thou hast spoken right, 'tis true;
beseech your highness, pardon me.
What men have you lost, Fluellen?
Mark him; note him. O brave Troilus! Look well upon
Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus
I'll not be long behind; though I be old,
There's a strong fellow, Menas.
The crown o' the earth doth melt. My lord!
I will go there and do't, i' the court, before
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam. Fare thee well.
No, good madam; I will not out of doors.
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
That admiration did not whoop at them:
Ay, every joint should seem to curse and ban:
Had not been broken, nor my brother slain:
Clapp'd to their gates: he is himself alone,
That you foresee not what impediments
And more he would have said, and more he spoke,
We'll bury him; and then, what's brave,
Bounding between the two moist elements,
Receive my tears and seem to weep with me;
for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling.
Safe out of fortune's shot; and sits aloft,
Thanks, courteous wall: Jove shield thee well for this!
Princes in this should live like gods above,
The news is true, my lord; he is descried;
Will rush into the state: it cannot be.
The prince of darkness is a gentleman:
Which I did think with slower foot came on,
And mine a sad one.
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
In the relief of this oppressed child
Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;
Is Bridgenorth: and, Harry, you shall march
Were then my fellows; now they are my men.
Upon a homely object Love can wink.
Farewell, Lavinia, my noble sister;
speak no more. Away with those giglots too, and
Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
not drowned. Is the storm overblown? I hid me
Yet once again proclaim it publicly,
I served my king, he would not in mine age
Over the boots? nay, give me not the boots.
Which was to please. Now I want
Thou worthiest Marcius!
His eyes are humbler than they used to be.
I should report that which I say I saw,
Death.
And say 'Ah, ha! you're caught.'
That thou began'st to twist so fine a story?
And all be turn'd to barnacles, or to apes
A law-breaker, a villain: yield thee, thief.
and lie under Mount Pelion. Well, I will find you
Out of our easiness and childish pity
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard
cast ashore.
What would you have me do? go to the wars, would
That stroke would prove the worst!
And, in the number, thee that wishest shame!
That good convenience claims.
And with his mad attendant and himself,
Purpose return. Why hast thou gone so far,
I will, my lord. Come on, sirrah; off with your
Why didst not tell me sooner? pox of your love letters!
Care no more to clothe and eat;
coffer, chest, trunk, well, vault, but he hath an
I kiss his dirty shoe, and from heart-string
Full surfeits, and the dryness of his bones,
The morn is fair. Good morrow, general.
And leave you hindmost;
at me? No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not
You shall hear one anon.
Did show ourselves i' the field; and to that end
From any private malice in his end,
Uncle Marcus, since it is my father's mind
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
I mean in singing; but in loving, Leander the good
Throw in the frozen bosoms of our part
Enter PAROLLES
With one that ties his points?
So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick:
Exit
With many legions of strange fantasies,
This is the day that, in King Edward's time,
Near to the walls, by some apparent sign
By and by.
The sense of reckoning, if the opposed numbers
sir?
Or lowly factor for another's gain;
Ay, or I would these hands might never part.
Fairly answer'd;
How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes
I died for hope ere I could lend thee aid:
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
Myself and divers gentlemen beside
As ever offer'd foul play in the state.
For an hour.
your worship well; God restore you to health! I
You would have bid me argue like a father.
Newly preferr'd from the king's secretary,
And, madam, at your father's castle walls
highness wronged.
But quick and in mine arms. Come, take your flowers:
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
Pish!
I am almost mad myself: I had a son,
How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour,
Then comes my fit again: I had else been perfect,
Enter a Groom of the Stable
Hear you, master steward, where's our master?
What heaven hath given him,--let some graver eye
And to the nightingale's complaining notes
How now! what news?
And hold our lives in mercy. Oswald, I say!
With one fool's head I came to woo,
Thou know'st no less but all; I have unclasp'd
Exeunt
Ay, and since too, murders have been perform'd
combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.
Lift up your countenance, as it were the day
The heir of Alencon, Katharine her name.
Do it without invention, suddenly;
augmentation of the Indies: you have not seen such
Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste,
Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
And once again proclaim us King of England.
my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for
Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil
The old proverb is very well parted between my
Enter ARTEMIDORUS, reading a paper
As Anna to the queen of Carthage was,
French crowns, and to-morrow the king himself will
Peace, master marquess, you are malapert:
should sing.
Come to thy grandam, child.
I have the toothache.
SCENE I. Padua. BAPTISTA'S house.
This, Decius Brutus.
Of burning Rome.
Hence! I will follow.
fetch him hither; go.
Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.
Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,
Exit
Why, that's my bawcock. What, hast
And they to him are angels.
you not. I'll not be far from you: do you find
Why, so you are, my thrice renowned liege.
To be acknowledged: thou a sceptre's heir,
From out the circle of his territories.
I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind,
That e'er devotion tender'd! What shall I do?
What say the augurers?
What Cloten's being here to us portends,
RICHARD
This is a way to kill a wife with kindness;
'Zounds, sir, you're robb'd; for shame, put on
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
Three times to-day I holp him to his horse,
Speak briefly then;
And the ass more captain than the lion, the felon
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
An yet, for all his wings, the fool was drown'd.
broke them in the sweet face of heaven: one that
But he as he, the heavier for a whore.
should end it.
Now, good Lafeu,
Soft!
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
Hume's knavery will be the duchess' wreck,
and my staff understands me.
Lay kissing in your arms, lord cardinal.
The spacious world cannot again afford
He leaves his pledges dearer than his life:
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
died: they say he made a good end,--
'Tis full of woe: yet I can give you inkling
thou thimble,
Of a whole herd of lions.
Marcius,
One that goes with him: I love him for his sake;
Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air,
Regard thy danger, and along with me!
You must not speak of that: you must desire them
That might have known my place: I see no sense for't,
With that dear blood which it hath fostered;
Cry woe, destruction, ruin and decay:
For, you trow, nuncle,
It proves not so: their battles are at hand;
to-day: you, to Sempronius: commend me to their
They heave MARK ANTONY aloft to CLEOPATRA
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, DOUGLAS, and VERNON
Enter CAPULET
Affection is not rated from the heart:
Let me remember thee what thou hast promised,
The gods for murder seemed so content
A maid-child call'd Marina; who, O goddess,
honour is rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow.
'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gait;
Do you intend it?
By him that thunders, thou hast lusty arms;
As thou dost swallow up this good king's blood
The breaking of so great a thing should make
I here bestow a simple instrument,
By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done
The duke knows him for no other but a poor officer
Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you
This casket threatens. Men that hazard all
Is to himself, take thought and die for Caesar:
Who's there that knocks?
And wherefore not ships?
But I do find it cowardly and vile,
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
But twenty times so much upon my wife.
With whose sweet smell the air shall be perfumed;
Of limping winter treads, even such delight
a man! if thou dost perform, confound thee, for
truth enough alive to make societies secure; but
I warrant you, mistress, thunder shall not so awake
Welcome, dear madam.
Where the devil should this Romeo be?
There were a heart in Egypt.
Those of your fact are so--so past all truth:
Awhile to work, and after holiday.
O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself!
Here he comes with your niece: give them way till
The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
You have a daughter call'd Elizabeth,
sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
The winter coming on and sickness growing
We'll hear the will: read it, Mark Antony.
That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
Received the golden earnest of our death;
That strumpet Fortune, that usurping John!
Why, our battalion trebles that account:
I swear, I scorn the term; Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
That presses him from sleep.
ACT IV
Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny.
Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
there is either liquor in his pate or money in his
Ay, so I did indeed.
Are register'd where every day I turn
Here by the cheeks I'll drag thee up and down.
Who, frighted from my country, did wed
I said, my lord, if you did know my parentage,
To-night, to-night. But, mistress, do you know the
Hold up your hands, say nothing; I'll speak all.
And meet the time as it seeks us. We fear not
Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you,
never an eye in thy head? canst not hear? An
come, come, come, come, give me your hand. What's
Hark! hark! what shout is that?
To thy good truth and honour. Devilish Macbeth
Out of his charity, being then appointed
He wish'd to-day our enterprise might thrive.
Trust me, a mad host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.
Are you our daughter?
Between the child and parent.
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
Sirrah, or you must fight, or else be hang'd.
Let him depart; his passport shall be made
Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
If the king come, I shall incur I know not
That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
I have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?
I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
What is his name?
My Lord of Canterbury; and got your leave
Mark the high noises; and thyself bewray,
we'll put you i' the fills. Why do you not speak to
Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
Be brooch'd with me; if knife, drugs,
Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
Let not our looks put on our purposes,
Though he be honourable,--
Good sooth, even thus; therefore ha' done with words:
And to the coffers of the king beside,
virtue out of our hearts by the head and shoulders
But if you be afeard to hear the worst,
The which you promised I should possess.
Be choked with such another emphasis!
Till that a capable and wide revenge
Where they shall know our mind: away!
And with a corded ladder fetch her down;
For yesternight by Catesby was it brought me;
Re-enter LUCIUS with LIGARIUS
Which told me they had beat you to your trenches?
You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
Entreat you to your wonted furtherance?
I know not what to do: I would to God,
During all question of the gentle truce;
Let it be so; thy truth, then, be thy dower:
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
Ay, marry, will we; therefore get ye gone.
an unshunned consequence; it must be so. Art going
it his that finds it.
Thus by Apollo's great divine seal'd up,
Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self!
Who put my man i' the stocks?
Where is thy conscience now?
For fear their colours should be wash'd away.
And is not that your bondman, Dromio?
Pardon, my liege, that I have stay'd so long.
in reputation. Reputation is an idle and most false
More like an empress than Duke Humphrey's wife:
Kneeling
Re-enter, from the barge, Lord, with MARINA, and a young Lady
Your majesty loads our house: for those of old,
Good for their meat, and safer for their lives.
sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.
Even as your horse bears your praises; who would
There is no more to say?
What man dost thou dig it for?
It is an heretic that makes the fire,
We three are but thyself; and, speaking so,
The fear's as bad as falling; the toil o' the war,
Gall! bitter.
To go out of my dialect, which you
He weeds the corn and still lets grow the weeding.
O Ratcliff, I fear, I fear,--
late stood out against your brother, and he hath
good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination:
SCENE V. Corioli. A street.
[Aside]  If it be a sin to make a true election, she
Has broken a staff or so; so let it pass.
him, foul collier!
Set on your foot,
I will make fast the doors, and gild myself
Lead to the Sagittary the raised search;
So was his will in his old feeble body.
I am none, by this good light.
Exeunt
By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
sensible man, by and by a fool, and presently a
But there is something glows upon my cheek,
O murderous slave! O villain!
Enter BRABANTIO, RODERIGO, and Officers with torches and weapons
Play, music, then! Nay, you must do it soon.
Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
I think, than you make a woman: besides he brings
may beg; four pound of prunes, and as many of
purchase in so removed a dwelling.
Even as I would when I to love begin.
Will bring this labour to an happy end.
Hath nothing been but shapes and forms of slaughter.
The old cock.
for light; else, sir, no more tribute, pray you now.
aloud to him!
O Caesar, read mine first; for mine's a suit
Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown;
To boast of this or take the praise from God
If not, to hide what I have said to thee,
Farewell nobility; let his grace go forward,
But honours you; and every one doth wish
Thou shalt be so well master'd, but, be sure,
I mind to tell him plainly what I think.
'Sblood, there is something in this more than
man, I'll do you your master what good I can: and
commander,--
Which makes me fear the enjoying of my love:
As living here and you no use of him.
Tell me her father's name and 'tis enough;
Dost thou know me, fellow?
person than any of us all.
He will, an if he live to be a man.
Thou hast prevail'd; I pardon them and thee:
Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing
the scale.
Why now; as fast as she can marry us.
'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.
For in an act of this importance 'twere
But they will pluck away his natural cause
How have I been behaved, that he might stick
I know not, Marcus; but I know it is,
But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
Enter Keeper
thinks a man always going to bed, and says, 'God
Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires;
And then I'll speak a little.
And watch withal; for, but I be deceived,
Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty:
But, since the cuckoo builds not for himself,
To have begg'd or bought what I have took:
I know this cannot be.
To her acceptance; you have let him go
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
I pray thee, let us go and find him out
Have fought with equal fortune and continue
There you shall find that Portia was the doctor,
And Henry but usurps the diadem.
Exeunt
I conjure only but to raise up him.
Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom?
And like thy brother, to enjoy thy land,
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
Anne Page is, at a farm-house a-feasting; and thou
Let every man be master of his time
Of his true titles to some certain dukedoms
a-hungry, to challenge him the field, and then to
To save the Romans, thereby to destroy
I fear me, he will scarce be pleased withal.
Enter PAROLLES
[Within]  Lead, boy: which way?
wagers recorded.
Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky,
At your kind'st leisure.
And, if you will, tell what hath happened,
To grace it with your sorrows: bid that welcome
One day shall crown the alliance on't, so please you,
He means to recompense the pains you take
Yes, if it please your majesty, my liege.
I only have made a mouth of his eye,
of this walk, and my horns I bequeath your husbands.
Wilt thou serve me? for since patiently and
Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears,
While summer-days do last. Ay me! poor maid,
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
penning of it.
Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile
And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls;
Only I carry winged time
His way to Dover.
That youth's a rare courtier: 'Rain odours;' well.
For eminent assistants; but, spider-like,
Ever right.
Enter, in conquest, with drum and colours, EDMUND,  KING LEAR and CORDELIA, prisoners; Captain, Soldiers,  and c
He has it now, and by his looks methink
I would he had.
And when it breaks, I fear will issue thence
Give me a gash, put me to present pain;
Sir, I will pronounce your sentence: you shall fast
May make against the house of Lancaster.
And made defeat of her virginity,--
For wrying but a little! O Pisanio!
O old sir Robert, father, on my knee
And in our sight they three were taken up
Between my conscience and my cousin's death.
is allowed for the day-woman. Fare you well.
Exeunt
Before we will lay down our just-borne arms,
Faith, I'll not meddle in't. Let her be as she is:
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
Accept my thankfulness.
I have retired me to a wasteful cock,
They have ta'en note of us: keep on your way.
entering, that if any crave redress of injustice,
Will you be gone?
Flourish. SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS go up into the Capitol
I must confess your offer is the best;
Than stand uncover'd to the vulgar groom.
Ability in means and choice of friends,
merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by
Then march to Paris, royal Charles of France,
So full-replete with choice of all delights,
What should I see then?
Good madonna, why mournest thou?
Exit Herald
Are you not well?
love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news.
And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
For England his approaches makes as fierce
One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
A most harsh one, and not to be understood without
Help, grandsire, help! my aunt Lavinia
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
upon the least occasion more mine eyes will tell
Tongue-tied ambition, not replying, yielded
Enter Servant
Strike not by land; keep whole: provoke not battle,
O'er the vast world to seek a single man,
And if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,
Startles and frights consideration,
with hope, till the wicked fire of lust have melted
Villany, take your rapier.
By heaven, you do me wrong.
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
let me borrow my arms again.
Dine with my father, drink a health to me;
The ship is here put in,
And live the purer with the other half.
That we have tried the utmost of our friends,
Meanwhile, sir, with the little skill I have,
The fire of rage is in him, and 'twere good
I sometimes do believe, and sometimes do not;
For long agone I have forgot to court;
And says that once more I shall interchange
Her face, like heaven, enticeth thee to view
Would we were all discharged!
Henry is youthful and will quickly yield.
brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
tongue, and I thine, most truly-falsely, must needs
catch, if he knock out either of your brains: a'
men are April when they woo, December when they wed:
Father, the duke hath told the truth:
What out of this, my lord?
A goodly day not to keep house, with such
Trust nobody, for fear you be betray'd.
Like an old tale: but it appears she lives,
Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
Have made thee fear'd and honour'd of the people:
Of wreakful heaven, whose bare unhoused trunks,
Lay comforts to your bosom; and bestow
Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad.
losing of hope by time.
It is much that the Moor should be more than reason:
Hannibal! I respected with her before I was married
were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel.
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
O my distressed lord, even such our griefs are;
My gracious uncle, let me know my fault:
That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear
Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth,
Uncase thee; take my colour'd hat and cloak:
That man i' the world who shall report he has
So it be new, there's no respect how vile--
More fearful, is deliver'd.
to light: who in the night overheard me confessing
I would not be so sick though for his place:
Your grace attended to their sugar'd words,
knave, mine host.
rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn,' a hard rhyme; for,
Most maculate thoughts, master, are masked under
Traitors have never other company.
inkle?'--'One penny.'--'No, I'll give you a
That thou no more shalt see this knack, as never
And speak I will; I am no child, no babe:
I stand for judgment: answer; shall I have it?
Thy ambition,
To visit me. You know your office, brother:
That while Verona by that name is known,
No, sooth, sir: my determinate voyage is mere
I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
What is the fourth?
If I speak like a captain.
Install'd lord archbishop of Canterbury.
O general,
Those that I never saw and struck them dead.
But touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off,
What, for a counter, would I do but good?
And say which grain will grow and which will not,
Yea, on his part I'll empty all these veins,
victuals, and would fain have meat. O, be not like
The fountain from the which my current runs,
That as a waist doth girdle you about,
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
He childed as I father'd! Tom, away!
To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?
Or blood-consuming sighs recall his life,
And lay new platforms to endamage them.
Shall be my precedent; as thou got'st Milan,
You see how full of changes his age is; the
Is straight and slender and as brown in hue
Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing.
Let it go; there's few or none will entertain it.
Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too.
The flatness of my misery, yet with eyes
Of your fair courtesy.
[Reciting to himself]  'When we for recompense have
Beshrew me, the knight's in admirable fooling.
Say, what's thy name?
Of goodly thousands: but, for all this,
Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
Continues well my lord? His health, beseech you?
And be thou he.
A young Venetian, one that comes before
wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether
approach; and, in her invention and Ford's wife's
To sue his livery and beg his peace,
As so defend thee heaven and thy valour!
Biron is like an envious sneaping frost,
By heaven, these scroyles of Angiers flout you, kings,
And will you rent our ancient love asunder,
Listen to me, and if you speak me fair,
Lie all unlock'd to your occasions.
Thou that contrivedst to murder our dead lord;
To Pericles thy father.
Then you must undertake to slander him.
Sir, he hath never fed of the dainties that are bred
If it be proved against an alien
But how prevail'd you?
It is the stars,
Exeunt
discarded unjust serving-men, younger sons to
He says they can do nothing in this kind.
Hath banish'd moody discontented fury,
her, rather than she will bate one breath of her
The noble tribunes are the people's mouths,
Already; and, as I hear, the provost hath
My love as it begins shall so persever.
Lord cardinal,
And when mine oratory grew to an end
Above a better gone, so must thy grave
find, I warrant you, that there is no tiddle toddle
And she is dead; which nothing, but to close
Ah, ha! does she so?
her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it,
I could well forbear't.
The times that brought them in; so shall I do
A letter from the magnificent Armado.
Welcome, AEmilius	what's the news from Rome?
What, the fair Ophelia!
him manifests the true knowledge he has in their
Fair as a text B in a copy-book.
Nay, that I mean to do. Is not this a lamentable
into amazement and admiration.
Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound
Ay, and melodious were it, would you sing it.
And, in the publication, make no strain,
Yet writers say, as in the sweetest bud
He, he, and you, and you, my liege, and I,
Our dinner done, and he not coming thither,
Enter Servants with a basket
[Awaking]  Help me, Lysander, help me! do thy best
We live not to be grip'd by meaner persons.
If I fly, Marcius,
Dear lad, believe it;
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
To rest without a spot for evermore.
Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock, I'll ring it;
Sin from thy lips? O trespass sweetly urged!
The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
I will hereupon confess I am in love: and as it is
Who, with some other of the lords dependants,
A villain kills my father; and for that,
Nay, I am sure it is, Volumnius.
In favour was my brother, and he went
Himself! no, he's not himself: would a' were
Draw forth thy weapon, we are beset with thieves;
In passion shook.
Exit
The truth appears so naked on my side
As well the fear of harm, as harm apparent,
Are yours, my lord: I give them with this ring;
PROLOGUE
Whate'er it be,
Come to our tent till we have done our conference.
As it rain'd kisses.
More than your enemies.
to offend no man; and it is an offence to stay a
Come, come, you're mocking: we will have no telling.
Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen:
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
You mend the jewel by the wearing it.
That have but labour'd to attain this hour.
ANTIPHOLUS
revolutions: these are begot in the ventricle of
Is cold in amity and painted peace,
Were in a mask?
By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think
And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth
Alencon, and an enemy to our person; if thou
May make some stronger head; the which he hearing--
When first this order was ordain'd, my lords,
That done, dissever your united strengths,
So do not you, for you are a light wench.
May be call'd ransom, let it come: sufficeth
Do mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd
were good pancakes and swore by his honour the
That satiate yet unsatisfied desire, that tub
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Flourish
Of your great danger.
so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey the
To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight;
But now you partly may perceive my mind.
continency; sparrows must not build in his
The stages of our story. Pericles
Now, Charmian!
What, dear sir,
If well, he stepp'd before me, happily
Art thou contented, Jew? what dost thou say?
Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead,
Who, Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
He'll stop the course by which it might be known;
Good madam, hear me speak,
of heavy tedious penury; these Time ambles withal.
out of rings?
Come pat betwixt too early and too late
In her pavilion--cloth-of-gold of tissue--
'Tis strange.
who committed treason enough for God's sake,
Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish
Cornets. Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, all the Gentry, COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators
And, like a hungry lion, did commence
You shall.
They took his head, and on the gates of York
My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence;
And cuts me from the best of all my land
I do, my lord; and in her eye I find
Exit
Nay, I'll help too.
Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
Plenty and peace breeds cowards: hardness ever
All the better; their fraction is more our wish than
O piteous spectacle! O bloody times!
feigning; and lovers are given to poetry, and what
I have, so much wit thou lackest.
On thee I lay whose wisdom's strength can bear it.
The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds
being once gone.
sir John!' quoth I	'what, man! be o' good
But nothing spake in warrant from himself.
Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
Such another proof will make me cry 'baa.'
Were there in arms, they would be as a call
From chance to chance: but nor the time nor place
Mark your divorce, young sir,
Glittering in golden coats, like images;
Come, let us leave her;
I thought the king had more affected the Duke of
A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine:
Good.
the Tower, to defend the city from the rebels.
Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
He's a disease that must be cut away.
You and your crafts! you have crafted fair!
king: it may concern much. Stay not thy
Have you a father?
God bless my ladies! are they all in love,
What signifies my deadly-standing eye,
displeasure in him by word or countenance?
Yes, mercy, if you report him truly.
HECTOR passes
O, let me speak!
yesterday; for the other has half, by the entreaty
Say, Signior Gremio, What can you assure her?
The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought,
friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
The beggary of his change; but 'tis your graces
Thy mother's of my generation: what's she, if I be a dog?
The world esteem'd thy father honourable,
Stands on a tickle point, now they are gone:
And leave your children, wives and you in peace.
This is the monkey's own giving out: she is
Then shall we find to-morrow they have only stomachs
I ne'er heard yet
As ever oak or stone was sound.
Many a groaning throe. Thus hulling in
finder of madmen. But see, but see.
Faith, mistress, then I have no cause to stay.
Hath almost overta'en him in his growth.
As for my patron, stand you so assured,
hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other;
This is a man, old, wrinkled, faded, wither'd,
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
Ere I will see the crown so foul misplaced.
I dare thereupon pawn the moiety of my estate to
whatsoever he be. Who told you of this stranger?
Please you, sir,
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
What's this, what's this? Is this her fault or mine?
How prove you that, in the great heap of your
Are level now with men; the odds is gone,
Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily,
Sperr up the sons of Troy.
Let him be crown'd; in him your comfort lives:
This may prove worse than hanging.
You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost
The deer was, as you know, sanguis, in blood; ripe
Alas, he's mad!
Much marked of the melancholy Jaques,
And kiss the lips of unacquainted change
Are not within the leaf of pity writ,
My brother Troilus lodges there to-night:
'And more faults than hairs,'--
But sup them well and look unto them all:
Whilst he that hears makes fearful action,
Losses their remedies. All weary and o'erwatch'd,
Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than I
'Twas Helicanus then.
Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
Such parting were too petty. Look here, love;
Say that the emperor requests a parley
What ever have been thought on in this state,
An if I live until I be a man,
Then give my tongue like leave to love my head.
It must be himself, then.
whoreson dog! you slave! you cur!
Their very heart of hope.
Forced by the tide to combat with the wind;
I know but of a single part, in aught
with an ordinary fool that has no more brain
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
Such commendations as becomes a maid,
and the boy:--
What is six winters? they are quickly gone.
Moreover, if you please, a niece of mine
And in conclusion drove us to seek out
And knew no other kin.
And then I ran away to call the watch.
and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
If not, he foams at mouth and by and by
I am a right maid for my cowardice:
Upon my life, by some device or other
To what I shall unfold.
Is this well spoken?
In voices well divulged, free, learn'd and valiant;
when it shall please my country to need my death.
We cannot live on grass, on berries, water,
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
A merchant of great traffic through the world,
And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
But if you ever chance to have a child,
Controlment for controlment: so answer France.
will say, 'Came you off with so little?' and great
Whom son I dare not call; thou art too base
Our fine musician groweth amorous.
That we shall see and know our friends in heaven:
England hath long been mad, and scarr'd herself;
Pluck them asunder.
And not for justice? What, shall one of us
Within Corioli gates: where he hath won,
True delight
that touch pitch will be defiled: the most peaceable
The extreme dangers and the drops of blood
I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes,
That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name.
Thrice-nobler than myself!
Thereof the raging fire of fever bred;
Eros! mine armour, Eros!
So oft as that shall be,
[Aside]	Two truths are told,
Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
3. Lord Chancellor, with the purse and mace
Let me see: every 'leven wether tods; every tod
Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter
Enter DOCTOR BUTTS
Or half her worthiness that gave the ring,
She is herself a dowry.
rogue's company. If the rascal hath not given me
I will not be your friend nor enemy:
As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
All but the base.
The gods to-day stand friendly, that we may,
with a piece of toasted cheese.
Go do it instantly.
The hand was fair before! I have put you out:
Not mine; my gloves are on.
Gets into the basket; they cover him with foul linen
During my life; and, to confirm his goodness,
You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her,
Enter ABHORSON
The country base than to commit such slaughter
With all the choicest music of the kingdom,
That noseless, handless, hack'd and chipp'd, come to him,
As she lived now.
have relished among my other discredits.
He who the sword of heaven will bear
'That I receive the general food at first,
Now, out of doubt Antipholus is mad,
He was the author, thou the instrument.
Doing displeasure to the citizens
Alarums. Enter RUTLAND and his Tutor
For those defects I have before rehearsed,
SCENE I. Before the Tower.
[Aside]  Plantagenet, I see, must hold his tongue,
Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales
It may lie gently at the foot of peace,
Thus far into the bowels of the land
be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether
With voices and applause of every sort,
What, will you have them weep our horses' blood?
Mine speak of seventy senators that died
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him,
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen  embracing him, and he her. She kneels, and makes  show of protestation unto him. He takes her up,  and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down  upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep,  leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his  crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's  ears, and exit. The Queen returns; finds the King  dead, and makes passionate action. The Poisoner,  with some two or three Mutes, comes in again,  seeming to lament with her. The dead body is  carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with  gifts: she seems loath and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts his love
Their several kinds have done. My high charms work
The mind I sway by and the heart I bear
Thus time we waste, and longest leagues make short;
Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Sir, we are undone; these are the villains
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester,
'Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once
'Twould fall upon ourselves.
All things in common nature should produce
Gives us free scope, only doth backward pull
And thankfully rest debtor for the first.
Did haunt you in the field.
wet me once, and the wind to make me chatter; when
In this mutiny, the Tribunes, the AEdiles, and the People, are beat in
Exeunt some Attendants
I have an hour's talk in store for you;
If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me: I
Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in
Woman, do what thou canst to save our honours;
Who is lost too: take your patience to you,
Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son,
Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
[To PAGE]  Will you go with us to behold it? My
been vicious
For God's love, let me hear.
The drum begins to march
Thisne;' 'Ah, Pyramus, lover dear! thy Thisby dear,
And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain:
art changed for Antenor: thou must to thy father,
I care not.
I am bound to thee for ever.
The oaks bear mast, the briers scarlet hips;
Have with you.
were of my mind,--
I give this heavy weight from off my head
Lay not thy hands on me; forbear, I say;
The justice of your bearts will thereto add
Until I send for thee.
Where is she, sir? How
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
So please you, this friar hath been with him, and
It is, my lord.
Yet if my name were liable to fear,
Thither I must, although against my will,
I should report this now, would they believe me?
Why, he hacked it with his dagger, and said he would
Since once he play'd a farmer's eldest son:
Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber with a
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
I know it well, my Lord; and, sure, the match
This ring was mine; I gave it his first wife.
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
And will be partner of your weal or woe.
Which labour'd after him to the mountain's top
By bloody hands, in sleeping on your beds!
How now, nuncle! Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
O, he is wounded; I thank the gods for't.
I think the Duke of Burgundy will fast
are now to examination these men.
What would you with me, honest neighbour?
Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
Of none but such as you, and you of Timon.
make known to you why I have done this. Come,
How quickly were it gone!
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
Consider this: he has been bred i' the wars
When I, that censure him, do so offend,
Religion groans at it.
O thou day o' the world,
And never will I rise up from the ground
him: discuss the same in French unto him.
Trumpets; hautboys; drums beat; all together
Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark,
Takes it in might, not merit.
And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale.
Uncertain of the issue any way.
beats her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses; 'O
In puny battle slay me.
He did oppose his foe:
SCENE II. A public place.
Though France himself and such another neighbour
If you can, your reason?
Can never turn the swan's black legs to white,
any such sort, as they say, but in the way of
thou sawest me not. Fare thee well.
God b' wi' you, with all my heart.
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.
The demi-Atlas of this earth, the arm
The name of valour.
You'll show a little honesty.
Henry my lord is cold in great affairs,
That he ran mad and died.
Hold thee, from this, for ever. The barbarous Scythian,
Sir John affects thy wife.
And I do fearfully believe 'tis done,
With edge of penny cord and vile reproach:
Disgraced me in my happy victories,
False allegations to o'erthrow his state?
We will not part from hence. Cesario, come;
And welcome, welcome! die where thou hast lived:
What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland?
As of a man faithful and honourable.
my spiteful execrations. Then there's Achilles, a
SCENE I. Verona. A public place.
he will keep out water a great while; and your water
The chimney
Of those that served Mark Antony but late,
Enter Ghost
His eye-balls further out than when he lived,
Dost thou not suspect my place? dost thou not
Although they wear their faces to the bent
one, they will beat us; for they bear them on their
Poor I am stale, a garment out of fashion;
And subjects none abroad: pray you, look in.
And that supposed by the common rout
And 'twere the cheaper way:
Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice,
trot as well, were some of your brags dismounted.
What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
What! lack I credit?
Dat is as it sall please de roi mon pere.
He knew me as a wife. As this is true,
need to be; virtuous enough; swore little; diced not
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
As I intend, Clifford, to thrive to-day,
For you have show'd me that which well approves
To that owes it, namely this young prince:
More rancorous spite, more furious raging broils,
Exit
It is a pretty youth: not very pretty:
Post thou to Salisbury
Say he is sick.
That in this quarrel have been overthrown
constable. How long have you been in this place of constable?
Fearing to strengthen that impatience
And thou shalt have her. Was't not to this end
O, ay, what else?
Upon the very naked name of love.
How every fool can play upon the word! I think the
I understand not, madam.
So he says here.
And bury all thy fear in my devices.
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
Here is her father's house; I'll call aloud.
For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.
And since I have not much importuned you;
Upon his son; who, high in name and power,
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
Than hope enjoy'd: by this the weary lords
Accursed the offspring of so foul a fiend!
That's somewhat madly spoken.
The triumph of his pledge.
that,--hissing hot,--think of that, Master Brook.
How! how!
put me into this apparel.
Lascivious Edward, and thou perjured George,
Cunning.
To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads,
Exit
The prince's espials have informed me
Song and dance
He little thought of this divided friendship:
he is enamoured on Hero; I pray you, dissuade him
But time hath rooted out my parentage,
Why, no.
Who prologue-like your humble patience pray,
Where hath it slept? Where is my mother's care,
The name of Antony; it was divided
[Aside]  Nor more willingly leaves winter; such
A fool in good clothes, and something like thee.
That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage
And afterward consort you till bed-time:
to the history of lust and foul thoughts. They met
My lord, I will be ruled;
Unto the secret nameless friend of yours;
Leaving his body as a paradise,
Advise him.
Let him have all the rigor of the law.
Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.
Enter OPHELIA
Since then my office hath so far prevail'd
And when you loved, you were my other husband.
If it were damnable, he being so wise,
Holloa me like a hare.
pageant of Ajax.
His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
broken out within this hour that ballad-makers
After the general, I beseech you next
He digs and sings
Enter ACHILLES
To the young man send humble treaties, dodge
You are abused and by some putter-on
What you have said, and show yourselves true Romans.
O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease: he
Love's tongue proves dainty Bacchus gross in taste:
I'll wait upon your lordship.
why, this fellow has banished two on's daughters,
A juggling trick,--to be secretly open.
Who lack not virtue, no, nor power, but that
And did him service: he touch'd the ports desired,
Exit
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
O villain! thou wilt be condemned into everlasting
Ay, with these crystal beads heaven shall be bribed
[Aside]  And so says York, for he hath greatest cause.
If it be so, sir, that you are the man
Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law:
Make thine own edict for thy pains, which we
With wrinkled brows, with nods, with rolling eyes.
What of that?
opinion so easily: she was in his company at Page's
poor gallant knave.
a woodcock too?
Wounds his arm
That lie within the mercy of your wit.
ANTIPHOLUS
Then 'tis but reason that I be released
Nym, and Pistol.
This peace is nothing, but to rust iron, increase
These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn.
Thou Icarus; thy life to me is sweet:
Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye
That little thought, when she set footing here,
The senators with one consent of love
Says to 'em, if King Pericles
'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:
The mother to a hopeful prince, here standing
Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
Even to his inches, and with private soul
Exit
Very like a whale.
The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant
Isidore's Servant	         Your steward puts me off, my lord;
Approves her fit for none but for a king:
What they are used to bear.
Faith so infringed, which such zeal did swear?
You will catch cold, and curse me.
Hath got the voice in hell for excellence:
Of your entire affection to Bianca;
Now in his ashes honour: peace be with him!
The clothiers all, not able to maintain
Let me have it;
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird,
Mine honour is my life; both grow in one:
Thy will by my performance shall be served:
Let me be used with honour: strew me over
Which we will niggard with a little rest.
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
To match with her that brings no vantages.
Go thou toward home; where I will never come
Wished, my lord! The gods grant,--O my lord!
That I, dear brother, be now ta'en for you!
To be spoke to but by the recorder.
Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
Receive so many, and all willingly:
Hath this extent, no more. Rude am I in my speech,
of the sun's! if thou didst, then behold that compound.
Without more wider and more overt test
To me for justice and rough chastisement;
It must be an answer of most monstrous size that
Than that poor Brutus, with himself at war,
Or lace for your cape,
Who deserves greatness
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Exit
lad, how is that answered?
My legs do better understand me, sir, than I
Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
O Lord, sir! why, there't serves well again.
Much wrong, you bate too much of your own merits:
What says she to my valour?
I will reward thee
And make two pasties of your shameful heads,
Would here have kill'd your king; I do forgive thee,
Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES
Down with him, down with him!
Judgment.
Helenus? no. Yes, he'll fight indifferent well. I
To be revenged upon her. For when fools Shall--
'Tis a very excellent piece of work, madam lady:
Solicit Henry with her wondrous praise:
And spend your rich opinion for the name
Why, then, depart in peace, and let the child wake
Behold, these are the tribunes of the people,
that resemble something in me,--Softly! M, O, A,
Fall down before him, like the mower's swath:
Thou earth, thou! speak.
My heart dropp'd love, my power rain'd honour, more
And now excess of it will make me surfeit.
It draws toward supper in conclusion so.
And even for that do I love you the more.
To save your brother from the sacrifice;
We'll call thee at the cubiculo: go.
Is the third man that e'er I saw, the first
Have I heard groan and drop: then know me not,
Enter ROBERT and the BASTARD
I would I were invisible, to catch the strong
The silver livery of advised age,
Or than for strength and safety of our country.
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.
Let him make treble satisfaction.
And teach me how to curse mine enemies!
No man must know.
Thou'rt poison to my blood.
And soon and safe arrived where I was.
And every tongue brings in a several tale,
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
Enter three or four Servitors
Command the rest to stand. God and our right!
Your features! Lord warrant us! what features!
When as your husband all in rage to-day
To execution and the hand of death.
Enough, sweet Suffolk; thou torment'st thyself;
Who is it that hath died for this offence?
I am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer,
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,--
[Aside]  How like a fawning publican he looks!
Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love!
trimmed, rushes strewed, cobwebs swept; the
Well, Duke of Gloucester, I will yield to thee;
Sit thee down, Clitus: slaying is the word;
And so the prince obscured his contemplation
Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
Good even to my ghostly confessor.
With Cain go wander through shades of night,
ANTIPHOLUS
SCENE III. The palace.
Re-enter HERMIA
For in the ingrafted love he bears to Caesar--
To ISABELLA
He does deny him, in respect of his,
I go, my lord.
Her boat hath a leak,
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
dares, being dared.
RICHARD
Or bide the mortal fortune of the field?
To bring the roof to the foundation,
The King of Naples, whosoe'er thou art.
Besides, the sore terms we stand upon with the gods
Enter LADY MACBETH and a Servant
Lives not alone immured in the brain;
Draw thy sword,
What company, at what expense; and finding
To grace thy marriage-day, I'll beautify.
Exeunt all but HAMLET
I will acquit you.
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
Almost as like as eggs; women say so,
Your accent is something finer than you could
The king rises.
I'll bring you to a captain in this town,
To God, the widow's champion and defence.
O, villain that I am!
Exit Lord Mayor
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Good madam, what's the matter with my lord?
In Normandy, saw I this Longaville:
You'll leave your noise anon, ye rascals: do you
Adieu, sir.
A trusty villain, sir, that very oft,
You dog!
SCENE V. A room in the Garter Inn.
These numbers will I tear, and write in prose.
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
And he hath promised to dismiss the powers
Canst thou blame him?
Ah, Luciana, did he tempt thee so?
Or void the field; they do offend our sight:
But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica,
Give me a living reason she's disloyal.
Sea-water shalt thou drink; thy food shall be
I follow'd fast, but faster he did fly;
That angel of the world, doth make distinction
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand,
Did I forget that by the house of York
Cure this great breach in his abused nature!
But which are the offenders that are to be
of his salvation, the inheritance of it; and cut the
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
That will encounter with our glorious sun,
With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
Now, good Sir John, how like you Windsor wives?
Sir, he made a chimney in my father's house, and
Why, she's neither fish nor flesh; a man knows not
As great in admiration as herself;
May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit.
Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
By heaven, I will acquaint his majesty
ill-rooted already: the least wind i' the world
He pours it out; Plutus, the god of gold,
Why, all the boys in Venice follow him,
Who hath upon him still that natural stamp:
I gain'd my freedom, and immediately
Enter DEMETRIUS and PHILO
together: if our father carry authority with
a boy for a girl. If I had been married to him, for
In thy tale.
you to Lord Timon's.
Exeunt
well endeavours to trust to himself and to live
If there be devils, would I were a devil,
Have other some: why, 'tis a happy thing
'Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last;
More than indeed belong'd to such a trifle,
And where my liege's? all about the breast:
Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks;
The motto thus, in Spanish, 'Piu por dulzura que por fuerza.'
cunning of it; I found it thrown in at the
ANTIPHOLUS
the painted cloth for this: your lion, that holds
Why, would that have mended my hair?
He is a noble Roman and well given.
My eye's too quick, my heart o'erweens too much,
According to my shallow simple skill.
And dead men's cries do fill the empty air,
SCENE II. France. Before Orleans.
And find the inheritance of this poor child,
In such a night
tell thee how the prince, Claudio and my master,
That's enough.
To inherit such a haven: but first of all,
I cannot weep; nor answer have I none,
nobleman, and she sent him away as cold as a
He is but mad yet, madonna; and the fool shall look
Alas, who knows?
Madam, I'll sing.
Display'd so saucily against your highness,--
I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my
Are made thy chief afflictions. Alas, kind lord!
working-days: your grace is too costly to wear
it, but he is resolute. I'll tell thee, Charles:
Let me wipe off this honourable dew,
8. A canopy borne by four of the Cinque-ports;
Wherein he puts alms for oblivion,
And not have spoke on't! In me 'tis villany;
What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
What bloody man is that? He can report,
And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
Were 't not for laughing, I should pity him.
Teach us some fence!
commonwealth; as which of you shall not? With this
Even to my full of view.
Why, no; for she hath broke the lute to me.
Not Cassio kill'd! then murder's out of tune,
But bring they what they will and what they can,
hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing
Are you at leisure, holy father, now;
Which is that Barnardine?
Where such as thou mayst find him.
Namely, to Hastings, Derby, Buckingham;
COUNTESS
expecting thy reply, I profane my lips on thy foot,
I never should forget it: 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he;
The dint of pity: these are gracious drops.
How now, dear sovereign, and our gracious mother!
Came here to make us merry! and thou hast
I had my father's signet in my purse,
Like humble-visaged suitors, his high will.
I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.
Abused extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'
To thee I do commend my watchful soul,
O, take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks,
And hold their level with thy princely heart?
Ha! wherefore?
And fell so roundly to a large confession,
for my life.
Fare thee well.
So clear in his great office, that his virtues
Thus have I yielded up into your hand
Brave death by speaking, whether he will or no;
If you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,
In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell;
More composition and fierce quality
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
And will he not come again?
It is Cassandra.
shall we not? what sayest thou, my fair
with clean hands.
For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight.
And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness,
But since it would not, he had none of me.
For every storm that blows: I, to bear this,
Say that I linger'd with you at your shop
Away, you Ethiope!
That, if thou conquer Rome, the benefit
Even so quickly may one catch the plague?
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
of two dog-apes, and when a man thanks me heartily,
Shall this his mock mock out of their dear husbands;
And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes,
were cast away before us even now.
The azured harebell, like thy veins, no, nor
Be call'd Posthumus Leonitus; and
But to the purpose--for we cite our faults,
Subdued me to her rate: she got the ring;
No, nor mine now.
There's nothing situate under heaven's eye
Than he appears by speech: this is unwonted
fasting-days, and moreo'er puddings and flap-jacks,
Marry, after they closed in earnest, they parted very
Should in the furthest east begin to draw
Fare thee well: commend me to them both: there's
discharged. But come, your Bergomask: let your
Here is the cate-log of her condition.
Henry hath money, you are strong and manly;
I thank them for their tender loving care;
Ay, sir; she took them, read them in my presence;
And my poor soldiers tell me, yet ere night
Well, proceed.
at Shrewsbury.
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
Is Talbot slain? then I will slay myself,
Enter MENENIUS, COMINIUS, SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and others
they list.
What would these strangers? know their minds, Boyet:
My father stays my coming; answer not;
Good arms, strong joints, true swords; and,
SCENE VI. The English camp in Picardy.
I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not
But what linsey-woolsey hast thou to speak to us again?
Alack, alack!
Enter CYMBELINE, Lords, PISANIO, and Attendants
Or I have no observance.
Let him come near.
Thou gentle nymph, cherish thy forlorn swain!
In ranks and squadrons and right form of war,
So, by a roaring tempest on the flood,
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
Wert thou not beggar. Willing misery
To help unarm our Hector: his stubborn buckles,
Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part,
Madam, I pity much your grievances;
So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
No question.
Both, my good host, to go along with me:
Their woes are parcell'd, mine are general.
There's more depends on this than on the value.
Confound them by some course, and come to me,
For your behoof,--
I can with ease translate it to my will;
That I may slumber in eternal sleep!
Whereas no glory's got to overcome.
Without repugnancy? If there be
But grow like savages,--as soldiers will
Good George, be not angry: I knew of your purpose;
To angle for your thoughts: but you are wise,
Get you home, boy. Come, we stay too long.
drink, and drink sooner than pray: and yet, zounds,
Your oath is pass'd to pass away from these.
Four legs and two voices: a most delicate monster!
Must be as boisterously maintain'd as gain'd;
bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a
adheres together, that no dram of a scruple, no
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Hath ordain'd to an honourable end,
My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul.
upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
chiefest of them too: if I cannot ward what I would
What woman is this?
Of our most sovereign king.
Proud and ambitious tribune, canst thou tell?
Villain, I say, knock me here soundly.
After so long grief, such festivity!
Re-enter a third Citizen
Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
As thine was to thy husband; and this boy
Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks,
Bid Gloucester think of this, and he will weep.
Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray,
Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland,
see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your
With miry slime left on them by a flood?
Are  you mankind?
My liege!
He lays his breast open: she offers at it with his sword
And I must find that title in your tongue,
All unseen, can passage find;
Nor brass nor stone nor parchment bears not one,
--Is't possible?--Confess--handkerchief!--O devil!--
and anon falleth like a crab on the face of terra,
Let me have audience; I am sent to speak:
Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king:
term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.
of a lime-kiln.
I know your back will bear a duchess: say,
But, good my Lord, do it so cunningly
Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy.
To demonstrate the life of such a battle
Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes,
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
To high promotions and great dignity:
Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it!
Antonius!
No, Leonato,
Fear him not, Caesar; he's not dangerous;
To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son.
My present fancies.
In the great'st humbleness, and desired your highness
walked, to walk like one of the lions; when you
For how can tyrants safely govern home,
Fire answers fire, and through their paly flames
Have at you, then, affection's men at arms.
and a dram dead; then recovered again with
Not that I pity Henry's misery,
Ned, I give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapped
Why should you want? Behold, the earth hath roots;
Come on, sir; here's the place: stand still. How fearful
Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
Should a villain say so,
This very night at one another's heels,
Exit
Which is my heaven to have. Come, thou
RICHARD
And yet the painter flatter'd her a little,
To holy altars.
Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
promise ye, I fear you. I was always plain with
When with his Amazonian chin he drove
my bones: I shall not fear fly-blowing.
rightly, can ever believe such impossible passages
Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair:
companies, slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the
The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars;
For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee.
Becomes your enemy, for mocking him
Gave wings to my propension and cut off
Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?
melancholy, if you will favour the man; but, by my
And just against thy heart make thou a hole;
We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow
With me in your company?
Exeunt. Alarum, and chambers go off
His fame lives in the world, his shame in you.
I give heaven thanks I was not like to thee!
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Go bind this man, for he is frantic too.
I have not slept one wink.
Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an
'Twere pity they should lose their father's lands.
Which each to other hath so strongly sworn.
I thank you for this profit; and from hence
And such barren plants are set before us, that we
Of your own state take care: this dream of mine,--
Exit
Why, this is a passing merry one and goes to
he cannot by the duello avoid it: but he has
The king his father call'd Guiderius,--Jove!
Drown'd! O, where?
Will hold thee dearly for thy mother's sake.'
Proof?
Your power and your command is taken off,
To-morrow, may it please you, Don Alphonso,
She ne'er had known pomp: though't be temporal,
Pass by and curse thy fill, but pass and stay
There is a prohibition so divine
SCENE I. The wood. TITANIA lying asleep.
Made promise to the doctor. Now, thus it rests:
As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots
I cannot choose but tell him, that I care not,
kiss your hand, and so I leave you. By this hand,
Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman,
With blood and sword and fire to win your right;
The manage of my state; as at that time
Good sir, speak it to us.
Thy grave admonishments prevail with me:
[Within]  Faith, no; he comes too late;
Come on: in this there can be no dismay;
Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
That we should dress us fairly for our end.
I'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer;
Sir, but I do; or else I would be hence.
Be playfellows to keep you company!
all his ancestors that come after him may: they may
company last night at supper; a kind of auditor; one
To celebrate the joy that God hath given us.
Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:
The benediction of these covering heavens
No, sir, I live by the church.
him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him,
Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
thou art sad; get thee a wife, get thee a wife:
Let me entreat you.
I see it feelingly.
[To ESCALUS]  What you have spoke I pardon: sit you down:
For me, be you thoughten
worship more of the wart the next time we have
She is your treasure, she must have a husband;
What, blushing still? have you not done talking yet?
To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool
A son who is the theme of honour's tongue;
He had so; looking as it were--would I were hanged,
Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
mind it was: this is called the Retort Courteous.
Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds?
To choke it in the utterance. So our virtues
Too great for what contains it. Boy! O slave!
It nothing ill becomes thee.
And be no more an exhaled meteor,
'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
nor never break for urging. If thou canst love a
That's more
Very true;
What proclamation, man?
How little is the cost I have bestow'd
And with my nails digg'd stones out of the ground,
Standing your friendly lord.
The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart
Let me entreat you speak the former language.
Has much disgraced me in't; I'm angry at him,
For she is wise, if I can judge of her,
And flashing fire will follow.
To me can life be no commodity:
beginning.
If it be possible for you to displace it with your
That's my fear. I pray you, have a continent
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
Till I torment thee for this injury.
No, by the holy rood, thou know'st it well,
Another lean unwash'd artificer
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
Uncouple in the western valley; let them go:
Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
Give me thy sword. A peasant stand up thus!
When Talbot hath set footing once in France
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;
I'll tell you what,--
Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run,
I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother
If I can cheque my erring love, I will;
Will you, with those infirmities she owes,
He must not be my brother.
That ever swore her faith.
Is all the policy, strength and defence,
action outdone his former deeds doubly
Their battering cannon charged to the mouths,
Well, let them practise and converse with spirits:
There is no other way
We shall chide downright, if I longer stay.
To this their late escape.
bide with him,
So Brutus should be found. I thank thee, Brutus,
Captain Macmorris, I beseech you now, will you
Exit
Three or four thousand chequins were as pretty a
Directly to his good? Divinity of hell!
Even as the axe falls, if I be not faithful!
Your wife would give you little thanks for that,
to see so many dip their meat in one man's blood;
Rich men look sad and ruffians dance and leap,
not hand a rope more; use your authority: if you
And you will rather show our general louts
quick, quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.
Unto that element: but long it could not be
Toward this remedy, whereupon we are
You Banbury cheese!
Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns!
Very hand of heaven.
Why, this is just
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I
Hearing the surges threat: we must all part
But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista?
a pen, and a' babbled of green fields. 'How now,
With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse
I kindle the boy thither; which now I'll go about.
me asleep, for I am very heavy?
Mark but the badges of these men, my lords,
warlike resistance.
But I do think it is their husbands' faults
As I wear mine, are titles but of scorn.
Yes, surely.
Stay, father! for that noble hand of thine,
If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive,
How now, lad! is the wind in that door, i' faith?
Exit BANQUO
Upon the rising of the mountain-foot
And raise the power of France upon his head,
And fits the mounting spirit like myself,
2. Then, two Judges.
And call it accident.
Saint Lawrence Poultney, did of me demand
How to live better. For your stubborn answer
You kill her double. Nay, present your hand:
So merry and so gamesome: he is call'd
With this thy fair and outward character.
When neither is attended, and I think
Sir, amen.
Have I the aspic in my lips? Dost fall?
I should not know you, Brutus. Dear my lord,
From those that wish the downfall of our house!
his mouth, and promise, like Brabbler the hound:
Is made with all due diligence
Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more
To business that we love we rise betime,
For shame, you generals! what do you mean?
He makes important: possess'd he is with greatness,
Must fetch him in the papers.
But as we stand in fear,--
Let them alone awhile, and then open the door.
To render them redoubted! Look on beauty,
Myself have calm'd their spleenful mutiny,
The garter, blemish'd, pawn'd his knightly virtue;
Thy fortunes. How! that I should murder her?
What then?
the map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known
For this affliction has a taste as sweet
For what I bid them do: for we bid this be done,
So does it no man else. Met'st thou my posts?
And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father
And none but women left to wail the dead.
And yet methinks your grace hath not done well,
Let him die for't.
But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd,
SONG.
That hunger broke stone walls, that dogs must eat,
with cheer.
If thou dost break her virgin-knot before
Other affairs must now be managed.
No, I will not:
There was no winter in't; an autumn 'twas
I charge thee, Satan, housed within this man,
A solemn air and the best comforter
What ho! Horatio!
Thank me, sir, for what?
For that I knew it the most general way--
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
heir-apparent, could the world pick thee out three
I will have none so near else. Learn this, brother,
Thou shalt stand cursed and excommunicate.
This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not;
not bid him cut it to pieces: ergo, thou liest.
If none of them have soul in such a kind,
Exit
Now, Master Slender,--
Exeunt Servants with the basket
When she will take the rein I let her run;
Not so, gentle beast:
Go, rate thy minions, proud insulting boy!
BISHOP
I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
Who quickly fell before him: in which hurtling
Enter a Messenger
SCENE IV. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Sir, I pray you, a word: what lady is that same?
Let him be punish'd, sovereign, lest example
Exeunt
That Angelo is an adulterous thief,
In thy uprightness and integrity,
The cicatrice and capable impressure
Nay,
This hill is far enough. Look, look, Titinius;
The bow is bent and drawn, make from the shaft.
Not one to throw at a dog.
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
And call'd them blind and dusky spectacles,
With cloth of any colour.
A most arch heretic, a pestilence
If not in heaven, you'll surely sup in hell.
Not to come off, in his displeasure.
Took off her life; this, and what needful else
I never saw
To beat assailing death from his weak legions:
Good, good: the justice of it pleases: very good.
The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet:
where, if thou fear to strike and to make me certain
Here is a letter; read it at your leisure;
As toss'd it upon shore.
Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind,
Enter STEPHANO
RICHARD
I must begin with rudiments of art;
But thou slew'st Tybalt; there are thou happy too:
That this foul deed shall smell above the earth
Brother by the mother's side, give me your hand:
Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces,
As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins
Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife,
O learned judge! Mark, Jew: a learned judge!
every day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: I
I will not go to-day; and ere I do,
And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!
The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;
Is nor of heaven nor earth, for these are pleased.
To give thee hallow'd to thy grave, but straight
Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately,
And tell the legions 'I can never win
May the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
You were the duke's surveyor, and lost your office
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
Salt Cleopatra, soften thy waned lip!
Is it his use?
Our bending author hath pursued the story,
If it assume my noble father's person,
I am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor.
O queen of queens! how far dost thou excel,
Despising many forfeits and subduements,
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
Why, I have lost him too.
There's neither faith, truth, nor womanhood in me else.
Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom:
Pole!
Neither my place nor aught I heard of business
Thank you.
genders? Thou art as foolish Christian creatures as
He is my dear friend, an please you.
To make of him a formal man again:
What dost thou wrap and fumble in thine arms?
We will persuade him, be it possible,
But who is here? Lysander! on the ground!
Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
By magic verses have contrived his end?
And whipp'd the offending Adam out of him,
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
And fight and die is death destroying death;
Being prepared for land.
Believe things certain. Welcome, my friends all!
And to proclaim it civilly, were like
Shall be the surety for their traitor father.
By a vain prophecy of Nicholas Hopkins.
I cannot, 'twixt the heaven and the main,
But that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not
That he is worshipp'd in a baser temple
Rise from the ground like feather'd Mercury,
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
Who, but for dreaming on this fond exploit,
So many mermaids, tended her i' the eyes,
Exit
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
Out--
Have you conspired, have you with these contrived
appear stubborn to him; for she incites me to that
Now I'll tell you without asking: my master is the
I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.
at midnight? Fie, fie! he'll never come.
The child was bound to the father; sir, in fine,
The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.
there were not two or three and fifty upon poor old
O Brutus!
Loved as he loves himself: even now I met him
If we would have you.
All matter else seems weak: she cannot love,
Open't, and read it.
Your answer had not been inscroll'd:
Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
Hath it not, boy?
DON
And when I rear my hand, do you the like,
Good morrow to this fair assembly.
with man, woman, or child.
Exeunt BANQUO and FLEANCE
Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint-stool.
Farewell, Andronicus: Revenge now goes
I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence' cell.
And, whilst I at a banquet hold him sure,
I would not have your free and noble nature,
When foreign princes shall be certified
Alas, poor soul!
I am bid forth to supper, Jessica:
embrace your own safety and give over this attempt.
Like foggy south puffing with wind and rain?
Allayments to their act, and by them gather
Enrings the barky fingers of the elm.
And, not without some scandal to yourself,
By gar, me dank you for dat: by gar, I love you;
wrestler shall clear all: nothing remains but that
Who? God?
Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.
Nor I.
One that composed your beauties, yea, and one
As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground.
And sent you hither so unlike yourself?
But more of this hereafter. You, Diana,
With a refined traveller of Spain;
This is thy negligence: still thou mistakest,
with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit
And the imperial votaress passed on,
That brain'd my purpose. But, peace be with him!
What's the matter, good Mistress Page?
A stone is soft as wax,--tribunes more hard than stones;
What peremptory eagle-sighted eye
And, as we may, cherish Duke Humphrey's deeds,
And all those sayings will I overswear;
Servant-monster! the folly of this island! They
Well, Hal, well; and in some sort it jumps with my
For making him egregiously an ass
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to
In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
He'll lead me, then, in triumph?
To those of mine in court: I'll stay at home
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
his miseries, Britain be fortunate and flourish in
As will disperse itself through all the veins
Lechery! I defy lechery. There's one at the gate.
I pray you, sir, receive the money now,
your worships: more of your conversation would
If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
To part the glories of this happy day.
You that choose not by the view,
Are the indentures drawn? shall we be gone?
Be free as is the wind. Deliver him, Titus.
God shield you mean it not! daughter and mother
What handkerchief?
At supper.
Are grown so catching.
An I thought that, I'ld forswear it. I'll ride home
That had a head to hit, either young or old,
To FERDINAND
Was he mad, sir?
briefly yield her; for she must overboard straight.
for, by gar, me vill have it.
And your experience makes you sad: I had rather have
in the world, if a' could get her good-will.
Exit BOULT
Neglect the visitation of my friends.
Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
Makes sound opinion sick and truth suspected,
To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
Enter MARIA
Well, I shall see her to-day. Hold, there's money
We had conceived against him: Maria writ
Commend me to my kinsmen and my son:
Ay, forsooth; to desire her to--
How now, good Blunt? thy looks are full of speed.
To Ireland will you lead a band of men,
Not I	I must be found:
Who threats, in course of this revenge, to do
Who told me how the poor soul did forsake
Their counsel turns to passion, which before
SCENE IV. Athens. A room in MARK ANTONY's house.
Alack that Leonine was so slack, so slow!
Or who hath brought the fatal engine in
How probable I do not know--that Marcius,
Aboard our dancing boat; make swift the pangs
That justly think'st, and hast most rightly said!
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
swear he loves me.
Exit
Fortune forbid my outside have not charm'd her!
And wheresoever we went, like Juno's swans,
Therefore, Timon,--
If underneath the standard of the French
O, not all, my friend, not all; for if all your
My mistress loved thee, and her fortunes mingled
Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel
Sir, my lord would instantly speak with you.
conference was sadly borne. They have the truth of
Master Fenton, talk not to me; my mind is heavy: I
And were brought moping hither.
Is't real that I see?
paid you more, which will shame you to give him again.
Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together,
And the rarest that e'er came there.
Giving him papers
That I, thy enemy, due thee withal;
that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.
command at all hours.
fair; there was good sport at his making, and the
Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
That am a maid, though most ungentle fortune
Good night, my noble lord.
inventory to particularise their abundance; our
As foolery in the wise, when wit doth dote;
Give you good morrow, sir.
Lets along.
Do, good friend.
Have turn'd mine eye and wept. But, good Pisanio,
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! beware Macduff;
In doing this for's country: athwart the lane,
Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see
Pluck the grave wrinkled senate from the bench,
Dazzle mine eyes, or do I see three suns?
Hold, valiant Clifford! for a thousand causes
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?
O, but I fear--How lost you company?
More sacks to the mill! O heavens, I have my wish!
What heir of York is there alive but we?
Nor how my father would enforce me marry
Who slew to-day a righteous gentleman
That stands upon the rolling restless stone--
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart,
And will they so? the gallants shall be task'd;
So that the ram that batters down the wall,
In England
Piercing the night's dull ear, and from the tents
A better prince and benign lord,
Exit Servants
you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever;
And the persuasion of his augurers,
One minute, nay, one quiet breath of rest.
Of vapours that did seem to strangle him.
Exeunt all but CLOTEN
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
O Margaret, thus 'twill be; and thou, poor soul,
And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.
gentleman of the greatest promise that ever came
Prepare thy brow to frown: know'st
Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet
To tug and scamble and to part by the teeth
Unto his princely brother presently?
I am content to be Lucentio,
Came then into my mind; and yet my mind
tell what thou art by inches, thou thing of no
That could be brought to bodily act ere Rome
As one relying on your lordship's will
Me, uncle?
The bishop and the Duke of Gloucester's men,
Not wind? it shall, it must; you see it doth.
The archbishopric of Toledo, this is purposed.
If you respect them, best to take them up.
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
We will go walk a little in the orchard,
Exeunt
The queen this day here holds her parliament,
The gods defend him from so great a shame!
Nor iron on his heel! I am ashamed
And how does that honourable, complete, free-hearted
The will of heaven be done, and the king's pleasure
Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester: I have bespoke
Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder,
Who shuns not to break one will sure crack both:
Which stretched to their servants, daughters, wives,
When they next wake, all this derision
I know no news, my lord.
I may revolve and ruminate my grief.
Her sight did ravish; but her grace in speech,
approaches; courtesies there to me,--
And well said too; for who shall go about
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
That, ere the next Ascension-day at noon,
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
Might there not be a charity in sin
Let's make the best of it.
Think you I can a resolution fetch
Off with my boots, you rogues! you villains, when?
Her motion and her station are as one;
This Trojan scorns us; or the men of Troy
that gives it. Let no assembly of twenty be without
Wouldst have me weep? why, now thou hast thy will:
York, if thou meanest well, I greet thee well.
And, when I had it, drew myself apart
And I will please you what you will demand.
My heart misgives me: here comes Master Fenton.
The Athenians both within and out that wall!
A se'nnight's speed. Great Jove, Othello guard,
Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear
Like rivers of remorse and innocency.
Good master secretary,
Now, Salisbury, for thee, and for the right
Gentle Lucetta, fit me with such weeds
Nay, by Saint Jamy,
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
Lies mocking our designs: with him Patroclus
To lay our service freely at your feet,
Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal: but
Exeunt all but MONTAGUE, LADY MONTAGUE, and BENVOLIO
And overlook their grafters?
About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring
I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine:
no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey,
Enobarbus, welcome!
Set but thy foot
The presence of a king engenders love
Has had most favourable and happy speed:
When I first moved you.
Let them not cease, but with a din confused
'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
Excepting none but good Duke Humphrey:
GLOUCESTER and CLARENCE retire
Do as the carrion does, not as the flower,
yet could not equivocate to heaven: O, come
As if Olympus to a molehill should
Puts on his pretty looks, repeats his words,
And take him from our presence.
And, in good time, here comes the sweating lord.
Saving your mincing, the capacity
Well, let his father be what a' will, we talk of
Think upon Grey, and let thy soul despair!
Worthy the pressing--lies a mole, right proud
How do you, gentlemen?
For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
Hast thou of me as she is for a wife.
O heavenly mingle! Be'st thou sad or merry,
Enter the PRINCESS, KATHARINE, ROSALINE, and MARIA
Dites-moi l'Anglois pour le bras.
To oppose his hatred fully. Welcome home.
I have sat here all day.
Half an hour since brought my report.
I never saw an action of such shame;
Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud,
Your fellow tribune.
Mother, I am going to the market-place;
it that always makes a good voyage of nothing. Farewell.
If foul desire had not conducted you?
Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove:
But now it is impossible we should:
Good night; and better health
Entirely to her love, but if she lost it
Upon your favours swims with fins of lead
The fellow is distract, and so am I;
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more:
My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin:
Well; again.
All prompting me how fair young Hero is,
his form, as you are like to find him in the proof
in a flint, which will not show without knocking.
Why, sir?
Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me
Let us haste to hear it,
Forgetting thy great deeds, when neighbour states,
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
A maiden battle, then? O, I perceive you.
That e'er was heard or read!
Go, one of you, find out the forester;
[Within]                 Come back: what mean you?
blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us
And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
they be true; if not true, none were enough.
Fie, what a question's that,
Welcome is peace, if he on peace consist;
Re-enter DESDEMONA and EMILIA
A wonder, lady! lo, upon thy wish,
I could have given less matter
The air, a charter'd libertine, is still,
Master Deep-vow, and Master Copperspur, and Master
And turn again; and she can weep, sir, weep;
If thou hadst drunk to him, 't had been a kindness
So I to her and so she yields to me;
Come, put mine armour on; give me my staff.
The cardinal's and Sir Thomas Lovell's heads
An earl I am, and Suffolk am I call'd.
He wears his honour in a box unseen,
Fie on ambition! fie on myself, that have a sword,
Our lusty English, all with purpled hands,
Him that you term'd, sir, 'The good old lord Gonzalo;'
Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,
Thou art a murderer.
I thank you, sir.
In rage dismiss'd my father from the court;
Begot upon itself, born on itself.
What letters hast thou there?--I can but thank you.
Exit
In recompense whereof he hath married her.
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
My bosky acres and my unshrubb'd down,
Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
To-morrow, or next day, they will be here.
I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad:
with you,--and you have been a man long known to me,
As take from me thyself and not me too.
Of his profession, that his good receipt
Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
This paper has undone me: 'tis the account
Take her away; for she hath lived too long,
Alack, 'tis he: why, he was met even now
For shame! in duty bend thy knee to me
I am not mad: this hair I tear is mine;
Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star;
The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow,
Why, this was moulded on a porringer;
Till I am even'd with him, wife for wife,
Both as the same, or rather ours the elder,
O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
And I have one thing, of a queasy question,
For nought I did in hate, but all in honour.
Of shame seen through thy country, speed
Let Alcibiades know this of Timon,
And I will seek for Pindarus the while.
It stops me here; it is too much of joy:
With it beat out his brains! Piety, and fear,
As, deathmen, you have rid this sweet young prince!
[Sings]
Varro's Servant	Thou art not altogether a fool.
Enter BASSIANUS and LAVINIA
Of horsemen, that were levied for this siege!
That, with his pretty buzzing melody,
it up. Fellow kings, I tell you that that Lord Say
And sing our bondage freely.
A soul so easy as that Englishman's.'
Than vainly longing. What we oft do best,
Our hearts receive your warnings.
Than nobleness and riches: careless heirs
For thousands more, that yet suspect no peril,
Go to, go to.
thou art thought to be Achilles' male varlet.
This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled.
Before I drew this gallant head of war,
Hal, wilt thou make one?
Thy praises in his kingdom's great defence,
I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
You cannot guess who caused your father's death.
With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows,
Or, when he doom'd this beauty to a grave,
Exit CASSIO
Strengthen'd with what apology you think
A minister in his power. You know his nature,
The man that once did sell the lion's skin
When shall we three meet again
In saying so, you shall but say the truth.
Fated to the purpose did Antonio open
For confirmation that I am much more
This is strange: your father's in some passion
Except mine own name: that some whirlwind bear
To't.
Of singular integrity and learning,
complain of? Come me to what was done to her.
Here is some gold for thee.
This ring I gave him when he parted from me,
When I have laid proud Athens on a heap,--
No thought can think, nor tongue of mortal tell.
Here have we war for war and blood for blood,
And that I would not for a cow, God save her!
I have been worth the whistle.
It made me laugh to see the villain run.
Of more preeminence than fish and fowls,
Rob one another. There's more gold. Cut throats:
So shall you quietly enjoy your hope,
Warwick is hoarse with calling thee to arms.
Not measuring what use we made of them.
And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel
To PHILEMON
Of trotting 'paritors:--O my little heart:--
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
his servant? Nay, I'll be sworn, I have sat in the
With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept
And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live;
that fretted in their own grease: think of that,--a
O, my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath; and I
Where she remains now sick.
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
As who should say 'I am Sir Oracle,
Go, go, provide.
And bring him jump when he may Cassio find
Sir Thomas Lovell, had the cardinal
Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Well, my lord.
Or I shall so be-mete thee with thy yard
Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio.
Exit one with GLOUCESTER
Exeunt
Accusativo, hinc.
Her father is Baptista Minola,
come, come; trib, trib.
SCENE VI. The same. A banqueting-room in Timon's house.
But to her love concerneth us to add
I pray you, father, being weak, seem so.
the state, and usurp the beggary he was never born
A Judas!
And men may talk of kings, and why not I?
And hear your mother's lamentation!
To stop the foreign spirits, but they come,
And free my country from calamity:
[Advancing]  Do you hear, monsieur? a word with you.
Richard Plantagenet, my lord, will come:
Save you your labour. He that lies slain
Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
Well, sir, we will not.
that's all the riches I got in his service.
known well enough too?
The fit is momentary; upon a thought
Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter.
The sides of loyalty, and almost appears
Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
Blush not in actions blacker than the night,
the world bitter to the best of our times; keeps
But more devout than this in our respects
A hair-brain'd Hotspur, govern'd by a spleen:
Will they return?
I cannot tremble at it: were it Toad, or
Pardon me, madam:
To join with him and right his heinous wrongs.
swear in both the scales against either scale;
the hardest voice of her behavior, to be Englished
Exit CLAUDIO
Let the garden door be shut, and leave me to my hearing.
For I was train'd up in the English court;
His will is most malignant; and it stretches
And I.
How now, my masters! have you chose this man?
neat's leather have gone upon my handiwork.
And with our fair entreaties haste them on.
By heavens, I'll go:
She was of Tyrus the king's daughter,
Pass'd over to the end they were created,
Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions:
Be executed by nine to-morrow morning:
Spending his manly marrow in her arms,
forward to-night.
Exit
she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more
Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
Tell you, I do not, nor I cannot love you?
How now! How a dozen of virginities?
No marrying 'mong his subjects?
Marry, hang thee, brock!
He plays false, father.
Yonder is a most reverend gentleman, who, belike
New woo my queen, recall the good Camillo,
Thunder and lightning. Exit Spirit
Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn;
Of trembling winter, the fairest
Exit LADY MACDUFF, crying 'Murder!' Exeunt Murderers, following her
How now!
Come on;
As harbingers preceding still the fates
Now I arise:
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
this garment through the rough seams of the waters:
Weep, wretched man, I'll aid thee tear for tear;
Fie on thee, jolt-head! thou canst not read.
Hath had no notice of these accidents;
How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!
A hundred thousand more; in surety of the which,
The blind to bear him speak: matrons flung gloves,
The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts.
I beg cold comfort; and you are so strait
I would you were set, so your affection would cease.
Vat be all you, one, two, tree, four, come for?
And Longaville was for my service born.
Will follow mine, if once they see them spread;
I know you all, and will awhile uphold
These your unusual weeds to each part of you
Leave me not behind thee: but,--
Well, my good lord, I'll do't.
When such profound respects do pull you on.
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.
And then I will her charmed eye release
I have possess'd your grace of what I purpose;
Collected choicely, from each county some,
Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
Which being sealed interchangeably,
I do not know what 'poetical' is: is it honest in
I hear of none, but the new proclamation
The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls,
SCENE V. A park near Middleham Castle In Yorkshire.
To the choleric fisting of every rogue
His fretted fortunes give him hope, and fear,
Exit
What do you mean, my lord?
We thus submit unto,--our sovereign.
Enter THALIARD
Which is but cold, inflaming love i' thy bosom,
See, Buckingham, Somerset comes with the queen:
to-morrow: I have a jest to execute that I cannot
My brother hath done well.
I here abjure, and, when I have required
Am I to fear, or none.
To those of mine!
And lawfully by this the Jew may claim
No, no, my lord.
thigh: if the man were alive and would deny it,
I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth
Give me.
Lest we remember still that we have none.
How goes the day with us? O, tell me, Hubert.
Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
I thank thee, good Sir John, with all my heart.
open't. So, let's see: it was told me I should be
As the dead carcasses of unburied men
Have with you. I would rather hear them scold than fight.
between them.
Reads
That I do brag thus! This your air of France
Lead me.
For dainties are all Kates, and therefore, Kate,
Yet,--
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
Masks for faces and for noses;
No more of that. I pray you, in your letters,
This is desperate, sir.
him; for she'll be up twenty times a night, and
I swear again, I would not be a queen
What follows this?
Bolts and shackles!
Unless my sins abuse my divination--
That goes not out to prey. Now, as fond fathers,
As those two eyes become that heavenly face?
Even on their knees and hands, let him slip down,
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school.
As thou hast power and person.
When, with a most impatient devilish spirit,
Ay, I do.
Go in to Troy, and say there, Hector's dead:
Tell me, Othello: I wonder in my soul,
And, after many lengthen'd hours of grief,
The other, though unfinish'd, yet so famous,
Droop not; adieu. Farewell, my wife, my mother:
you to gratify the table with a grace, I will, on my
Not to be pardon'd, am content withal.
What are you sewing here? A fine spot, in good
but his nose is executed and his fire's out.
heart of his obedience. I dare pawn down my life
Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS, and a throng of Citizens
And with your queen. I am his cupbearer:
And say you would present her at the leet,
Pray you, my lord, give me leave to question; you
I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.
To see perform'd the dreaded act which thou
The execution of his wit, hands, heart,
And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
O, pardon me: 'twill do me good to walk.
Judas Maccabaeus clipt is plain Judas.
Inferior to none but to his majesty:
I to this fortune that you see me in.
To-morrow morning come you to my house,
Do so, good mine host.
Honour, riches, marriage-blessing,
Leaps o'er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils,
pray heartily, pardon me.
A power I have, but of what strength and nature
I knew him tyrannous; and tyrants' fears
And had no help of anger: they were parted
As prouder livers do.
Thank you, sir: farewell.
As I do pray the gods.
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
Have put to death an hundred senators.
And, not reform'd, may prove pernicious.
Thrice-noble Suffolk, 'tis resolutely spoke.
Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;
Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out
thou art our admiral, thou bearest the lantern in
Know, worthy Pompey,
Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,
here in hideous darkness.
He's gone.
With what a sorrow Cromwell leaves his lord.
I mother, wife, and yet his child.
Thy hand upon that match.
With thine, and all that offer to defend him,
So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.
Than Jephthah's, when he sacrificed his daughter.
My crack'd one to more care. Have with you, boys!
Sirrah, were I at home,
Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else.
I mean to tug it and to cuff you soundly:
That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st
Why, by making him uncapable of Othello's place;
Lysimachus our Tyrian ship espies,
Hear me, dear lady; I have sworn an oath.
Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain.
Peace, peace! you durst not so have tempted him.
To understand my purposes aright:
SCENE IV. The forest.
If not Achilles, nothing.
Because you talk of wooing, I will sing;
malice, that, giving itself the lie, would pluck
Hear me one word.
For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
I fear he will indeed: well, let him have them:
But we will presently provide for them.
Of 'Came' and 'saw' and 'overcame: ' with shame--
know than comes from her demand out of the letter.
To where you are bound, you must inquire your way,
Re-enter QUINCE
Fair Margaret knows
And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
Why, I am sure, if he forfeit, thou wilt not take
and 'gentleman.'
My people did expect my hence departure
Exit
Why, sweet Othello,--
You'ld feel more comfort: why should we, good lady,
First, an it like you, the house is a respected
And therefore comes it that his head is light.
My lord, come you again into my chamber:
Good cousin, give me audience for a while.
I'll have her; and if it be a match, as nothing is
It likes us well;
In all that I can do.
Willing to overlook this pedigree:
One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,
brought to Leonato's: I will go before and show
Philip, good old sir Robert's wife's eldest son.
Upon the water as he'll stand and read
his tongue,
tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur:
My lord, my lord,--
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy,
Nor fetch in firing
For so I thought I was a cave-keeper,
Re-enter BELARIUS, with the body of CLOTEN
would change places with his officer; for, look you,
nothing, is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
Report should render him hourly to your ear
The burning torch in yonder turret stands.
Say ay, and be the captain of us all:
Stabbing him
Page. Said I well?
ANTIPHOLUS
There is my pledge; accept it, Somerset.
The varying shore o' the world. O Antony,
Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
Why, fool, I meant not thee; I meant thy master.
Sir, by your leave.
Is telling you that I am poor of thanks
A notable lubber, as thou reportest him to be.
And yet of moment to, for it concerns
Down, down I come; like glistering Phaethon,
How now! what do you here alone?
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
And in the morning early will we both
Exeunt
The owner of the house I did inquire for?
We would purge the land of these drones, that rob
You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
My falcon now is sharp and passing empty;
Like vassalage at unawares encountering
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Than seek a dispensation for his oath,
The mouths, the tongues, the eyes and hearts of men
Never,--O fault!--reveal'd myself unto him,
Where fame, late entering at his heedful ears,
He will shake
May tear a passage through the flinty ribs
Within this mile break forth a hundred springs;
All too soon I shall,
I do not speak of flight, of fear, of death,
The king cried Ha! at this.
By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought.
I should not then ask Casca what had chanced.
Any retirement, any sequestration
Because I would not tax the needy commons,
Peace, you were best.
If he improve them, may well stretch so far
Farewell, good Messala:
ANTIPHOLUS
Kindled with unchaste desire,
Thy nephew and right royal sovereign.
Within the house, your mistress is at hand;
No loving token to his majesty?
Not yet, I thee beseech:
Him caper upright like a wild Morisco,
Being the time the potion's force should cease.
Where should be graven, if that right were right,
Here he comes.
I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
Unpruned dies; her hedges even-pleach'd,
Not whom we will, but whom his grace affects,
But little thinks we shall be of her council:
Amen.
That you beat me at the mart, I have your hand to show:
I hear a knocking
I came this way so happily: the king
Though I show'd sourly to him, once more offer'd
Up to a whore; who now are levying
It may well be;
not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, caddis-garter,
A bawd, sir? fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery.
beauty, can do no more, spoil upon my face: thou
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
Orsino, noble sir,
Wherefore then
Storm still
Witness my son, now in the shade of death;
What says this leaden casket?
another Nan; but, I detest, an honest maid as ever
To be full like me: yet they say we are
length again, tarry: but away! go to; have you
Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
benches after noon, that thou hast forgotten to
Thou wretch, despite o'erwhelm thee!
Which comes to punish us, and we punish it
We'll fight with him to-night.
medicinable to me: I am sick in displeasure to him,
Those waters from me which I would have stopp'd;
Exit Lord
He neither does nor shall.
Exeunt
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
We must give up to Diomedes' hand
Yet, I remember, when I was in France,
to think on't. What says she there?
Who is thy grandfather: he made those clothes,
On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,
And took his voice who should be prick'd to die,
But, my good lord,
And that engenders thunder in his breast
I will obey thee. Helicanus!
Stabs him
Unto the French the dreadful judgement-day
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
Would let her out in saucers: sweet misprision!
And those things do best please me
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Unrip'dst the bowels of thy sovereign's son.
Watch thou and wake when others be asleep,
Whilst by a slave, no gentler than my dog,
And take your ring again; 'tis not yet won:
No, nor of any shores:
To pay their awful duty to our presence?
And the buildings of my fancy: only
I come about my brother.
the company thou keepest: for, Harry, now I do not
And therefore frame your manners to the time.
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
he would see her to-morrow.
Yet, if my lord will marry,--if you will, sir,
Confound your hidden falsehood, and award
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;
Enter URSULA
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
Dull; a man of good repute, carriage, bearing, and
call you the town's name where Alexander the Pig was born!
Witness, you ever-burning lights above,
But, come what may, I do adore thee so,
much. No, he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes
killed and eaten in these wars? But how many hath
Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
howsoever you colour it in being a tapster, are you
I am a lamb: but if you brave the Moor,
How now, Tubal! what news from Genoa? hast thou
Swear by her foot, that she may tread out the oath.
Apollo, perfect me in the characters!
DON
Play the maid's part, still answer nay, and take it.
Which cannot brook the accent of reproof.
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
He is, indeed; and living to kill thee. I prithee,
Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
Possess the people in Messina here
Why, there thou hast it: two deep enemies,
As words to little purpose.
Amidst the other; whose medicinable eye
Warwick may live to be the best of all.
Becomes his captain's captain: and ambition,
I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace:
That we may call it early by and by.
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
Do you confess so much? Give me your hand.
Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
others, to taste their valour: belike this is a man
With treacherous crowns; and three corrupted men,
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
Exampled by the first pace that is sick
I'll blush you thanks.
I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
SCENE II. The same. A street.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The match is made; she seals it
When he hath mused of taking kingdoms in,
I am glad I was up so late; for that's the reason I
Nor to one place; nor is my whole estate
Upon a gather'd lily almost wither'd.
Anointed, crowned, planted many years,
Came to my house and took away my ring--
Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd
O, help!
But, for the handkerchief,--
Did seek to murder me: and having woo'd
Here lies my gown.
Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens:
cannot tell.
Ruled, like a wandering planet, over me,
Dost thou hear, Hal? thou knowest in the state of
were not subject to a beast? and what a beast art
I cannot speak
Though I could wish
I cannot do it; yet I know no cause
after: a pestilent complete knave; and the woman
Since I have lost thee!
Helena is here at hand;
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
Because thou art not seen,
[Reads]
Who am I? ha?
How now, worthy soldier?
And wherefore are you gentle, strong and valiant?
Of Nature's gifts thou mayst with lilies boast,
But not my griefs; still am I king of those.
Why, then will I tell thee--that thy master stays
competency lives longer.
SCENE V. Pentapolis. A room in the palace.
So sways she level in her husband's heart:
For, good King Henry, thy decay I fear.
the bottom of the news is that our general is cut i'
For he was fitter for that place than earth.
I rest perplexed with a thousand cares.
Lord governor, for so we hear you are,
Agree between you; I will spare my hand.
if you be out, sir, I can mend you.
Tush, tush!
Exit
My niece's chambermaid.
Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
of this to-morrow. Adieu.
In liberty of bloody hand shall range
I shall cut out your tongue.
Is this your Christian counsel? out upon ye!
I am not yet instructed.
He'll stay my lord.
Cassius, be constant:
And hides a sword from hilts unto the point
Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,
simpleness; she derives her honesty and achieves her goodness.
Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
Hence, old goat!
That suffer in exposure, let us meet,
And they have wish'd that Lucius were their emperor.
Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded,
If you do censure me by what you were,
of invention: taunt him with the licence of ink:
discontent: his comfortable temper has forsook him;
How comes that?
fly from God: war is his beadle, war is vengeance;
Nay, then you lie: it is the blessed sun.
ACT I
Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks,
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
The rest is labour, which is not used for you:
I never saw the chain, so help me Heaven!
Horner, for saying that the Duke of York was rightful
not sprites.
Bid him repair to me, and bring with him
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands:
In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.
No excuse current, but to hang thyself.
SCENE IV. A nunnery.
He is too good and fair for death and me:
You shall be soon dispatch's with fair conditions:
I know you are not ignorant--
Would be even mortal to me.
faith. How does your little son?
Serving-Men	Open the gates unto the lord protector,
He cannot temperately transport his honours
Great king,
I have ta'en a due and wary note upon't:
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
He will stay till ye come.
Which serves it in the office of a wall,
I thought you would not back again.
Commits itself to yours to be directed,
An heir, and near allied unto the duke.
I am thus bold to put your grace in mind
This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.
Thou art welcome, Caius.
I do appoint him store of provender:
you shall be a woodmonger, and buy nothing of me but
And now, so you will let me quiet go,
Let vultures gripe thy guts! for gourd and fullam holds,
nothing still.
And I to thee engaged a prince's word,
I beseech your majesty, make up,
leman: hadst it?
Of my alleged reasons, drive this forward:
Ere the first sacrifice, within this hour,
bawd, in way of good service, and art nothing but
I can hook to me: say that she were gone,
mots que vous m'avez appris des a present.
No, in truth.
And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best.
I will say nothing.
Or be admitted to your highness' council.
Will soon recover his accustom'd health.
sentenced and stay upon execution.
O noble sir,
I do; and charge you in the duke's name to obey me.
if it were at liberty, 'twould, sure, southward.
You may look pale, but I should blush, I know,
[Reads]
A short alarum
Ay, by and by;
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
further afoot, I shall break my wind. Well, I doubt
should enjoy half his revenue,'--My son Edgar!
In at the window, or else o'er the hatch:
Exeunt
open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is
will depart unkissed.
The quality of persons, and the time,
There's no man happy; the purest of their wives
While Gloucester bears this base and humble mind.
the tired horse his rider. But, damosella virgin,
Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer:
Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers
Aside to them
I said, and said no more but what my thoughts
Fetch forth the stocks!
thing more than contempt, you would not give means
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
Fortune pursue thee!
A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please
Desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
And more diversity of sounds, all horrible,
I have spoke it, and I did it.
Which rottenness can lend nature! such boil'd stuff
ACT I
When I was stamp'd; some coiner with his tools
Fair weather after you!
As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep
Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily;
No matter where; of comfort no man speak:
Will't please you taste of what is here?
To Lydia and to Ionia; Whilst--
'Tis I that made thy widows: many an heir
No, my good lord, for that is not forgot
for a placket. I have said my prayers and devil Envy
By law of nature and of nations, 'long
As I perceived his grace would fain have done,
When we will tempt the frailty of our powers,
My sons, God knows what hath bechanced them:
Here's Beaufort, that regards nor God nor king,
By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern'd:
Let him fly far:
What must the king do now? must he submit?
I tender my commission; by whose virtue,
Enter ROMEO and JULIET above, at the window
To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,
On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
How things are perfected.
Would the two princes lie, and Claudio lie,
But not one follower.
And do submit me to your highness' mercy.
Be you then as the people's officer.
Of Laertes?
And we, in pity of the gentle king,
her, do; I will gyve thee in thine own courtship.
Now, Apemantus, if thou wert not sullen, I would be
into more work. But, indeed, sir, we make holiday,
should be put into the lanthorn. How is it else the
And lessen'd be that small, God, I beseech thee!
Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme.
I am able to endure much.
Most busy lest, when I do it.
Have I made shake and by the spurs pluck'd up
Why he, a woollen bagpipe; but of force
I am sorry, one so learned and so wise
Those girls of Italy, take heed of them:
Makes me forgetful?
Exeunt CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
And winking Mary-buds begin
So that by this intelligence we learn
How these were they that made away his brother.
With the dear love I bear to fair Anne Page;
Ere the ninth hour, I drunk him to his bed;
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul.
You have enscheduled briefly in your hands.
I was taken with none, sir: I was taken with a damsel.
The painting is almost the natural man;
Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne!
Cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay.
And after, every of this happy number
Forthwith that Edward be pronounced a traitor,
We'll hear, ourselves, again.
What, ho, Mistress Page! come you and the old woman
For often have you writ to her, and she, in modesty,
Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance
Than all the rest, discharged me with these words:
Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
Partly for that her promised proportions
prediction; there's son against father: the king
Would now be glad of bread, and beg for it:
Giving it to KATHARINE
Which, though thou wouldst deny, denies thee vantage.
True is it that we have seen better days,
with such waterflies, diminutives of nature!
I'll fetch you one.
Make that good.
Thus we set on, Camillo, to the sea-side.
gone both ways.
If Gloucester be displaced, he'll be protector.
Hark, boys.
What he might be: if what he might he is not,
Nay, he is dead; and slain by Edward's hand.
You had only in your silent judgment tried it,
Some tender money to me; some invite me;
Thou hadst been better have been born a dog
And be a happy mother by the deed.
In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you
As good to die and go, as die and stay.
Will parley with Jack Cade their general:
sheep-shearing.
Thy wife Paulina more.' And so, with shrieks
Than when it was a-doing.
Then there is the County Palatine.
And thou unfit for any place but hell.
Set at liberty: the fat ribs of peace
But Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom
And maintain such a quarrel openly?
As 'tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.
Exit EUPHRONIUS
Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
The slave's report is seconded; and more,
Unless I prove false traitor to myself.
I know this is a joyful trouble to you;
He falls forward
his cause be wrong, our obedience to the king wipes
late, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered;
And that the legions now in Gallia are
wine loved I deeply, dice dearly: and in woman
Durst never meddle--in the soul of state;
That erst did follow thy proud chariot-wheels
purpose that the world can say against it; and
Why? that you are my daughter?
He'll grant the tribute, send the arrearages,
Not honestly, my lord; but so covertly that no
Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast.
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
Upon a desperate bed, and in a time
For, knowing thee to be but young and light--
ACT I
Ay, it is no matter.
SCENE II. The same. Before Calchas' tent.
hast caused printing to be used, and, contrary to
Environed he was with many foes,
Since what I am to say must be but that
Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me: I would
So all.
Never durst poet touch a pen to write
All seals and symbols of redeemed sin,
I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse,
furred with fox and lamb-skins too, to signify, that
No; it is false, if it is a pick-purse.
Now, York, or never, steel thy fearful thoughts,
And gives memorial dainty kisses to it,
Commotions, uproars, with a general taint
Exit MOTH
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
I am afraid my daughter will run mad,
And rouse him at the name of Crispian.
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
Exit
By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear.
Sail seas in cockles, have an wish but for't;
Well held out, i' faith! No, I do not know you; nor
shall come in house withal, and, I warrant you, no
No, truly, but in friendly recompense.
In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.
What means that hand upon that breast of thine?
She was often cited by them, but appear'd not:
All adoration, duty, and observance,
Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt:
And raze their faction and their family,
The proclamation!
Became two spouts: the fury spent, anon
Have made the ground my bed. I should be sick,
solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight,
Master Lorenzo, sola, sola!
He should have struck, not spoke; or that these pirates,
You're great in fortune.
Italian, or French, let him speak to me; I'll
But what is not.
I prithee, let thy wife attend on her:
Indeed, a' must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout.
My lord?
time gentler than other, and at every putting-by
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
Cobloaf!
To hazard life and rescue you from him
Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio,
A very scurvy fellow.
Here, sir; as foolish as I was before.
By his cockle hat and staff,
To the bottom of the worst. Let Helen go:
Prick not your finger as you pluck it off,
Comes it not something near?
'Tis the times' plague, when madmen lead the blind.
No longer shall you gaze on't, lest your fancy
I, that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty
With Valentinus in the emperor's court:
Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour
I am glad to see your highness.
So beggars marry many.
So can I:
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
That wisdom, loyalty and mere dislike
And nothing of a man.
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
A yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast
That which his noble ancestors achieved with blows:
Fright me with urchin--shows, pitch me i' the mire,
I blame you not;
Hear'st thou the news abroad, who are arrived?
My shames redoubled! for the time will come,
My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
Florence, of a most chaste renown; and this night he
And take our friendly senators by the hands;
While she did call me rascal fiddler
Then heaven
Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
I'll never do you wrong for your own sake:
Which here we waken to our country's good,
Why the devil,
And you.
A page so kind, so duteous, diligent,
be looked against. Now, could I could come to her
For him, poor soul. The proudest of you all
That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
The eyes of young and old. Care not for me
Takes up HOTSPUR on his back
Lay her i' the earth:
drink in Illyria: he's a coward and a coystrill
This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
The duke retain'd him his. But on; what hence?
I'll take her to my guard.
Show not their mealy wings but to the summer,
at home that will not
Or else I will discover nought to thee.
had he done to you?
out, and give it him.' But there was such laughing!
The heavens,
And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it.
Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I give
So slight a valuation, should reserve
By being seldom seen, I could not stir
'They met me in the day of success: and I have
But on, my liege; for very little pains
Do so conjointly meet, let not men say
it, there is not one so young and so villanous this
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
'Tis in few words, but spacious in effect;
Now be a freeman: and with this good sword,
That, lying by the violet in the sun,
And see already how he doth begin
is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb.
From the Count Orsino, is it?
Well, sir; what did this gentleman to her?
Od's plessed will! I will not be absence at the grace.
So much, dear liege, I have already sworn,
And never be Bassanio so for me:
Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in 's tunes.
Or give me ribs of steel! I shall split all
Kissing her
But now, Baptists, to your younger daughter:
The king hath sent him, sure: I must dissemble.
The value of her own: 'twere a concealment
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
Am I the first that have been perjured so?
All the particulars of vice so grafted
crept into any alderman's thumb-ring: a plague of
And so will he do; for the man doth fear God,
Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter.
That there should be small love 'mongst these
Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes:
Master Page, and eke Cavaleiro Slender, go you
And so 'scape hanging: trust not the physician;
And, like a shifted wind unto a sail,
Will I not think of home, but follow arms.
Make me to think so twenty years together!
Attested by the holy close of lips,
once to a thing, and I was never mine own man
That touches Caesar nearer: read it, great Caesar.
But never more be officer of mine.
The warrants for yourself; take heed to't.
I'll lay my life, with my disposer Cressida.
may be to the flight of my master.
take vantages.
This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard.
Kneel not, gentle Portia.
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous
Here in this city visiting the sick,
Is that old noble lady, Duchess of Norfolk.
What, sir?
Enter PANDARUS
My lord, that, may be, hath endured a grief
That's sure of death without it, at once pluck out
grey iniquity, that father ruffian, that vanity in
Till you know better how to handle it.
May show her duty and make known her love?'
Then, till the fury of his highness settle,
Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
Whom I most hated living, thou hast made me,
Enter Watch, with the Page of PARIS
My blood is mingled with the crime of lust:
The dove will peck the estridge; and I see still,
Whether our daughter were legitimate,
Whose friend in justice thou hast ever been,
Ay, but hark you, my friend; 'twas we that made up
I did.
My lord high constable, the English lie within
carpet consideration; but he is a devil in private
I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
Is all as monstrous to our human reason
For I myself have many tears to wash
I would not be cured, youth.
What friendship may I do thee?
And thou that art his mate, make boot of this;
But entertain it,
Thy friends are fled to wait upon thy foes,
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
I promised here to meet.
Do botch and bungle up damnation
God Pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
me; for every reason excites to this, that my lady
Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine,
May have some scope to beat, or else I swoon
Makes us hear something.
Prove as successful to the queen,--O be't so!--
day living. I speak but brotherly of him; but
or her 'budget?' the white will decipher her well
that are fools, let them use their talents.
And, toward the education of your daughters,
I know you joy not in a love discourse.
the common people.
It may be so, my lord.
I care no more for than I do for heaven,
of me, there can be no kernel in this light nut; the
Good.
I would she were in heaven, so she could
The men of Tyrus on the head
An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an
What vane? what weathercock? did you ever hear better?
O, farewell, dear Hector!
That westward rooteth from the city's side,
Or made a toast for Neptune. Even so
With whom I am accused, I do confess
perchance of the duke's death; perchance entering
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But, I beseech you, what's become of Katharine,
Was ever son so rued a father's death?
The gold I give thee will I melt and pour
Light, gentlemen; I'll bind it with my shirt.
You will! why, happy man be's dole! My brother,
Wherefore eyest him so?
By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
Your very worshipful and loving friends,
poor three, and they can do no more than they can
Long since we were resolved of your truth,
Remember your bold life too.
Before we reckon with your several loves,
Then afterward up higher: but there is
Because I will be guiltless of the meaning.
But he's a learned man. May he continue
rogue: for, though it be night, yet the moon
He comes to bad intent.
I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
And bound I am to Padua; there to visit
And force them with a constancy, the cardinal
What, man?
By slaves that take their humours for a warrant
What is become of her.
That I am pretty.
Whither dost thou go?
Satan, avoid! I charge thee, tempt me not.
How does my royal lord? How fares your majesty?
Exeunt all but QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, and YORK; SOMERSET remains apart
would be argument for a week, laughter for a month
All hearts against us: Edmund, I think, is gone,
And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
My soul consents not to give sovereignty.
And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
Exit
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
Enter two Murderers
Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.
[Rising]  O, she was foul!
Sweet father, if I shall be thought thy son,
The cords, the ladder, or the hangman rather?
Have you seen my cousin?
My Genius is rebuked; as, it is said,
beguile thee; if thou wert the lamb, the fox would
O, by your leave, I pray you,
During their use, and slay us after.
Tut, a pin! this shall be answered.
Guardian!--why, Greek!
Enter CHARLES
Well, well; as for him, he brought his disease
Thou sayest true, i' faith, so they must; for your
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
[Within]  My liege, beware; look to thyself;
A thousand thousand sighs to save,
And, if the rest be true which I have heard,
Stand!
And almost shoulder'd in the swallowing gulf
And bid the main flood bate his usual height;
Teach us, sweet madam, for our rude transgression
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
And he's as like to do't as any man I can imagine.
All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady,
Protest their first of manhood.
Till Katharina the curst have got a husband.
Alas, poor caitiff!
Fortune is an excellent moral.
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
a very filthy rogue.
which you have not; but I pardon you for that, for
Enter a second Servingman
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
I do excuse you; yea, upon mine honour,
What woman is, yea, what she cannot choose
If he were dead, what would betide of me?
With a most false effect; and I the truer,
'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
[Aside to a stander by]
I have for the most part been aired abroad, I
The least of you shall share his part thereof.
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
I will not charm my tongue; I am bound to speak:
Rosalind of a better leer than you.
Aside
Begun to tell me what I am, but stopp'd
That thus so madly thou didst answer me?
Thy fortune, York, hadst thou been regent there,
Which she did use as she was writing of it,
Art ignorant of what thou art, nought knowing
Here comes the prince and Claudio hastily.
Thou gavest to Cassio.
Tell not me; when the butt is out, we will drink
Aside
Let one attend him with a silver basin
against such a good time, when I might ha' shown
To dash it like a Christmas comedy:
She hath abated me of half my train;
Find native graves; upon the which, I trust,
But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
Confirm'd, confirm'd! O, that is stronger made
And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,
The wager thou hast won; and I will add
All hot and bleeding will we offer them:
If he do fear God, a' must necessarily keep peace:
'Tis such another fitchew! marry a perfumed one.
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
is to behold him with flies blown to death. But what
'Tis probable and palpable to thinking.
Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
Out with it boldly: truth loves open dealing.
Come, here's the map: shall we divide our right
Can nothing render but allegiant thanks,
Your servant, and Costard.
No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York:
Whither, my lord? Cesario, husband, stay.
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave:
Nay, that's impossible: she may wear her heart out first.
Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me
We have yet many among us can gripe as hard as
The other, that he do record a gift,
Well, he's not here I seek for.
Why?
But always resolute in most extremes.
And now no more ado, brave Burgundy,
He gives his hand to WARWICK
say 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to
Come on, i' God's name; once more toward our father's.
Are many simples operative, whose power
Till it hath travell'd and is mirror'd there
But our great Ajax bravely beat down him.'
Cousin, stand forth, and look upon that man.
Caesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall
Come, officer, away!
When I forget to send to Antony,
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
The Fool runs out from the hovel
The innocent milk in its most innocent mouth,
Rome will despise her for this foul escape.
To think what follows.
If this be nothing.
Into this sea of air.
Live loathed and long,
Because I knew the man, were slighted off.
Nay, do not say, 'stand up;'
Whose sting is sharper than the sword's;
Resign to death; it is not worth the enjoying:
And Richard but a ragged fatal rock?
Arts-man, preambulate, we will be singled from the
Good night, Penthesilea.
Of a beloved daughter and a wife.
That present medicine must be minister'd,
Exeunt
Your high engender'd battles 'gainst a head
Go, sirrah, trudge about
And, being prostrate, thus he bade me say:
Yea, but
appearance of a naked blind boy in her naked seeing
Out of the great respect they bear to beauty,
What says my sweet queen, my very very sweet queen?
Fare you well: had you such a loss as I,
Dolabella,
honourable friend.
It is thy business that I go about;
Sixteen at least, my lord.
So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
And being join'd, I'll thus your hopes destroy;
See, they forsake me! Now the time is come
meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and
'No man must know.' What follows? the numbers
Cancel all grudge, repeal thee home again,
Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed,
viol-de-gamboys, and speaks three or four languages
You know the law, your exposition
Exit with Third Fisherman
But straight they told me they would bind me here
Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
Great lords and gentlemen, what means this silence?
A woman's story at a winter's fire,
Ere the leviathan can swim a league.
Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
He hath, and is again to cope your wife:
How shall I know if I do choose the right?
That I might strive to kill it with a groan.
To Lammas-tide?
As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
You fen-suck'd fogs, drawn by the powerful sun,
For fear and doting. Friends, be gone: you shall
A witch, a quean, an old cozening quean! Have I not
unclean fishpond of her displeasure, and, as he
Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore
From below your duke to beneath your constable, it
I'ld give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.
Art thou one of the Worthies?
Far from this country Pindarus shall run,
Forsooth, five years, and as much as to--
From this unhallowed and blood-stained hole?
When I am dull with care and melancholy,
Lie there, my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
Here, villain; drawn and ready. Where art thou?
As I am sick with working of my thoughts.
But stop my house's ears, I mean my casements:
Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock,
Now, thieves?
Thou art not so unkind
Here had the conquest fully been seal'd up,
A woman lost among ye, laugh'd at, scorn'd?
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
Sound a flourish. Exeunt
In mine own comforts. I prithee, good Iago,
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF MOROCCO  and his train; PORTIA, NERISSA, and others attending
We'll wait upon your lordship.
Exeunt
O'erbears it and burns on.
Sir, you have done enough, and have perform'd
Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age!
Cry within: 'Help! help!'
The law hath yet another hold on you.
wonder how thou darest venture to be drunk, not
My Lord of Norfolk, as you are truly noble,
Frown on, you heavens, effect your rage with speed!
Seek Percy and thyself about the field:
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
You are deceived; 'tis not so.
The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
Exeunt
For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich;
spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower? Art thou
Friends, that have been thus forward in my right,
happy hours are done and past, and his estate
Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome;
In troth, I think I should; and undo't when I had
Farewell at once, for once, for all, and ever.
Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
The death of Cassio to be undertook
Enrich the time to come with smooth-faced peace,
Alarum. Exeunt
As plays the sun upon the glassy streams,
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
Bond-slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be.
Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours
O gross and miserable ignorance!
But that he was bound by a solemn oath?
fantastical; the wedding, mannerly-modest, as a
Let's hear it.
England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
though his affections are higher mounted than ours,
Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness
Sing willow, willow, willow:
Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
Peace, mayor! thou know'st little of my wrongs:
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the
Ah, stand by.
I love you the better: the hearers may cry, Amen.
Iago set him on.
A son of mine, which long I have not seen.
Lord Bigot, I am none.
O that you could!
The people cry you mock'd them, and of late,
The mightiest space in fortune nature brings
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before;
Your comfort makes the rescue.
And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust,
Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
You say not right, old man.
Until the duke take order for his burial:
whiteness in them; but I guess it stood in her chin,
What said my man, when my betossed soul
to my fingers, and there is salmons in both. If you
Offended us you have not, but the king.
Should yawn at alteration.
that can be can come between me and the full
He was expected then,
Enough.
Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse
To do the office for thee of revenge,
As fancy values them; but with true prayers
As to peace-parted souls.
Reveal the damn'd contriver of this deed.
Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it is
osiers bow'd.
The anchor is deep: will that humour pass?
Is our whole dissembly appeared?
I think thou art an ass.
Known but by letter: thither write, my queen,
Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
My grief was at the height before thou camest,
the palsied intercession of such a decayed dotant as
As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow:
If you shall please so, pilgrim.
I will not be myself, nor have cognition
And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet.
Two other sons, who in the wars o' the time
That I, being govern'd by the watery moon,
Say not 'treasonous.'
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
Make them be strong and ready for this hint,
Be gone! I will not hear thy vain excuse;
We are not thieves, but men that much do want.
The way of our profession is against it:
Night hangs upon mine eyes; my bones would rest,
but the composition that your valour and fear makes
O, answer not, but to my closet bring
Make me not offended
With thy embracements to my wife's allies,
I love not to be crossed.
For, I believe, they are portentous things
Rather than rob me of the people's hearts!
every one of these letters are in my name. Soft!
I have sixty sails, Caesar none better.
This Cressida in Troy? Had she no lover there
How?
Resumes his mantle
opinion of his rage, skill, fury and impetuosity.
Because I would be sure to have all well,
O, lawful let it be
This rock and these demesnes have been my world;
True.
Nay, it is my maid's aunt of Brentford.
Voice and favour!
Of our fair cousin Dauphin; for we hear
Here's the lord of the soil come to seize me for a
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
Post blows a horn within
That I'll try.
ANTIPHOLUS
To vex thee.
That cannot be: you are a counsellor,
PROLOGUE
To LODOVICO and GRATIANO
My learn'd lord cardinal,
[To MARINA]  Come your ways. My masters, you say
I do retort the 'solus' in thy bowels;
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
No harm.
Off, pluck off:
In weeping after this untimely bier.
The bottom of your purpose.
And, father cardinal, I have heard you say
What letter is this same? What's here? 'To Silvia'!
They draw on both sides
No; I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds,
never shall come off, and show me a child begotten
Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort,
nor this is not my nose neither. Nothing that is so is so.
Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left
That, hearing of her beauty and her wit,
needs buy and sell men and women like beasts, we
Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Go; I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.
Some fair excuse.
Like to a step-dame or a dowager
I stretch it out for that word 'broad;' which added
Vow, Burgundy, by honour of thy house,
Exeunt BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
And for an honest attribute cry out
To cudgel you and make you take the hatch,
He left me proudly, as unworthy fight.
Who's best in favour. Let the music knock it.
Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue?
Call forth the holy father.
And that's a feeling disputation:
And the gods make her prosperous!
Welcome, lady.
Their tenor good, I trust.
Thou hast look'd thyself into my grace,
To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
I did not entertain thee as thou art.
Thus war hath given thee peace, for thou art still.
But where there is true friendship, there needs none.
And temperately proceed to what you would
God in heaven bless her!
Perhaps I will return immediately:
Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.
Shall cumber all the parts of Italy;
At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition,
My love should kindle to inflamed respect.
Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
What say'st thou, boy? look in the lady's face.
For that good hand thou sent'st the emperor.
[Aside]  Still on my daughter.
Brave Titinius!
Being on shore, honouring of Neptune's triumphs,
The supposition of the lady's death
Who hath measured the ground?
This evening, on the east side of the grove.
Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth;
For beasts that meet me run away for fear:
Are you the butcher, Suffolk? Where's your knife?
With slaughter coupled to the name of kings.
To hear from him a matter of some moment:
This will I send, and something else more plain,
Exit
it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
An it shall please you to break up
Resolved to carry her: let her in fine consent,
Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this
Exeunt
Dies
yours; for I will never love that which my friend hates.
prince and Claudio, as,--in love of your brother's
take a king. And what sayest thou then to my love?
ANTIPHOLUS
As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts;
But, were I you, he never should be mine.
As sun to day, as turtle to her mate,
Horns within. Enter KING LEAR, Knights, and Attendants
Goodman, my lord cardinal's man, for keeping my
state, shepherd.
But he that disciplined thy arms to fight,
For that which I did then: beaten for loyalty
Yes, madam: yet I cannot choose but laugh,
And I will fit thee with the remedy.
Nay, for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly
yet our horse not packed. What, ostler!
shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money.
I thank your grace,
The reasons you allege do more conduce
With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd,
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
If thou retire, the Dauphin, well appointed,
Where be the bending peers that flatter'd thee?
Exeunt all but MACBETH, and an attendant
of his own scorn by failing in love: and such a man
for the gift: the other is not a thing for sale,
The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow
less than truth, they are villains and the sons of darkness.
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
My villany?
Exeunt
Received his love?
I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painful
That it shall render vengeance and revenge
Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
With that, all laugh'd and clapp'd him on the shoulder,
My father's death--
Speak to the people, and they pity her.
O most unhappy strumpet!
Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
Now, good Camillo;
O, you hope the duke will return no more; or you
Was he not born of woman? The spirits that know
What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myself
Wherefore should you do this?
My cabin where I lay; thrice bow'd before me,
for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.
Aloud
What's here?
And I am glad of it with all my heart:
Did run pure blood: and many lusty Romans
Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
I'll join with black despair against my soul,
I prithee,
Enter CELIA, with a writing
She's dead, deceased, she's dead; alack the day!
I lost my liberty and they their lives.
As well as I can, madam.
Ay, that's my boy! thy father hath full oft
it was mere foolery; I did not mark it. I saw Mark
My grandsire, well advised, hath sent by me
How much is it?
To hang Cordelia in the prison, and
man! Would the duke that is absent have done this?
'Tis wonderful!
From such a filthy vice: say to thyself,
My residence in Rome at one Philario's,
That for this twelvemonth she'll not undertake
Against the mind, the which he pricks and wounds
Only in bone, that none may look on you!
Mock-water, in our English tongue, is valour, bully.
Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
attributes?
Such a nature,
Ourselves alone. I'll write it: follow me.
Ay, that.
hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
That this remotion of the duke and her
Let her not hurt me: I was never curst;
married un garcon, a boy; un paysan, by gar, a boy;
And every one his love-feat will advance
That I might be the organ.
Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes,
My lord, cheer up your spirits: our foes are nigh,
Irishman, a very valiant gentleman, i' faith.
very merry; but yet she is not well: but thanks be
Than Buckingham and his rash-levied army.
To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus,
Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
There's an old woman, a fat woman, gone up into his
There's more behind that is more gratulate.
A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
Well, say, sir.
Seven, by these hilts, or I am a villain else.
And make it but a shadow, as I am.
purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand! This is
Who told me, when we both lay in the field
Very strangely, they say.
Be left her to perform. Come, follow us;
Thou art inclined to sleep; 'tis a good dulness,
But by fair sequence and succession?
I'll teach you how to flow.
This is most likely!
We must prepare to meet with Caliban.
God keep me so! Our heralds go with him:
truer than those that are so washed. How much
'I would be consul,' says he: 'aged custom,
What is Pyramus? a lover, or a tyrant?
Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
That I some lady trifles have reserved,
Damnable both-sides rogue!
Tell him, the daughter of the King of France,
And didst contract and purse thy brow together,
One that will play the devil, sir, with you,
Well, he in time may come to clear himself;
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON
You press me far, and therefore I will yield.
Continual meditations, tears, and sorrows,
Enough; I read your fortune in your eye.
'But yet' is as a gaoler to bring forth
Exeunt some Attendants
Shut up your doors, my lord; 'tis a wild night:
Enter, on the walls, JOAN LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, REIGNIER, ALENCON, and Soldiers
That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
According to that state you shall be used.
Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
And answer was return'd that he will come.
hath seen such scarecrows. I'll not march through
And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
What, have you lost your wits?
Because we see it; but what we do not see
To have this young one made a Christian.
Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
And we shall make full satisfaction.
Scaling his present bearing with his past,
Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus:
Take with you your companions; as you look
my nation? Who talks of my nation?
finding him, and relish it with good observance.
buy him a wooden one?
More, by all mores, than e'er I shall love wife.
I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
But for thy world enjoying but this land,
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS; GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS following
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors.
Although the duke was enemy to him,
to the dead. But will it not live with the living?
To see her in your arms.
Undoing all, as all had never been!
As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows;
Most grave Brabantio,
Desire him to go in; trouble him no more
'tis a good dog.
Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
Unbuckle, unbuckle.
treasons, makes me betake me to my heels.
As stooping to relieve him: I not doubt
And never rise until my tears and prayers
As if they saw some wondrous monument,
She was a charmer, and could almost read
A little herd of England's timorous deer,
The gaoler to his pity. I kneel'd before him;
'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.
Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so.
Alas, you know I am no vaunter, I;
New wars 'gainst Pompey; made his will, and read it
And say, you found them in mine honesty.
Of noble minds is honourable meed.
Though I could 'scape shot-free at London, I fear
Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is
fortunes! O joy, e'en made away ere 't can be born!
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
I do desire thy worthy company,
SCENE II. A plain in Warwickshire.
I had thought, sir, to have held my peace until
And now methinks I have a mind to it.
Most barbarous, most degenerate! have you madded.
And rouse the prince and ring a hunter's peal,
A very beadle to a humorous sigh;
SCENE VI. The same.
The good gods preserve you!
This shall be done, good father, presently.
Nothing, Messala.
Till each man drop by lottery. But if these,
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't, yarely,
But what I am, want teaches me to think on:
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Being men of such great leading as you are,
I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;
Not I, my lord.
Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps,
Come, you and I will thither presently;
And he would love me dearly as his child.
are they gone, and there they intend to sup.
Ay, beauty's princely majesty is such,
Yare, yare, good Iras; quick. Methinks I hear
No, my good lord; he speaks the common tongue,
Exeunt SALANIO, SALARINO, and Servant
coach-fellow Nym; or else you had looked through
Outrun the pauser, reason. Here lay Duncan,
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
To use so rude behavior; go to, kneel.
Expect your highness' doom of life or death.
Truly, sir, and pleasure will be paid, one time or another.
The fool no knave, perdy.
Fierce to their skill and to their fierceness valiant;
Come, Marcus; come, kinsmen; this is the way.
If he be guilty, as 'tis published.
that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind
Appear unkinglike.
Saying, the sanguine colour of the leaves
To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us:
There have I made my promise
And long hereafter say unto his child,
O woful time!
Or seem so craftily; and that's not good.
How follows that?
To square for this? would it offend you, then
Thou shalt have one.
Exit
Hear me, my masters, and my common friends,--
He had of me a chain: at five o'clock
feel, to thy cold comfort, for being slow in thy hot office?
Of Charles his father.
God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
by'r lady, inclining to three score; and now I
Then, that in all you writ to Rome, or else
Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times
O, I believe with him,
worthless satisfaction. To this add defiance: and
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you?
Do as the heavens have done, forget your evil;
examine the wars of Pompey the Great, you shall
Will give her sadness very little cure.
These men of Angiers: let us hear them speak
Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is.
nor crop the ears of them.
O, cut my lace in sunder, that my pent heart
The first-begotten and the lawful heir,
Enter SERVILIUS
It is the flesh of a corrupted heart.
To make a rescue?
To England send him, or confine him where
[Reads]
books for good manners: I will name you the degrees.
Breed scrupulous faction: the hated, grown to strength,
O grace! O heaven forgive me!
Where nothing lives but crosses, cares and grief.
Good captain, let me be the interpreter.
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
You would have slipt like him; but he, like you,
Singing
And if no gentleman, why then no arms.
And say, 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
ANTIPHOLUS
'Tis a spell, you see, of much  power: you know the
man is ever angry. Go, let him have a table by
These are portents; but yet I hope, I hope,
'Tis most like he will.
Save in the office and affairs of love:
For putting on so new a fashion'd robe.
A thousand moral paintings I can show
Meaning me a beast.
That can with some discretion do my business,
France, Kate: but, in loving me, you should love
He'll tickle it for his concupy.
ANTIPHOLUS
How now, Malvolio!
And all the rest look like a chidden train:
And by my father's love and leave am arm'd
Well be with you, gentlemen!
I'll charm his eyes against she do appear.
And tapers burn'd to bedward!
How goes the world, sir, now?
My mother dead!
Here come the lords of Buckingham and Derby.
Thy wife, too! that's some wrong, indeed. What's
Alarums. Enter CASSIUS and TITINIUS
More holy and profound, than mine own life,
Come on, come on; you are pictures out of doors,
O, why should wrath be mute, and fury dumb?
For fear of that, I still will stay with thee;
could have been to him and then your blood had been
Exit
The galloping of horse: who was't came by?
This pert Biron was out of countenance quite.
What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
The imminent decay of wrested pomp.
birth, beauty, good shape, discourse, manhood,
Her words y-clad with wisdom's majesty,
Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona;
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Were you sworn to the duke, or to the deputy?
knowing what hath passed between you and Claudio.
Commit it, count.
And should you fall, he as the next will mount.
Imperious and impatient of your wrongs,
The Hebrew will turn Christian: he grows kind.
And either not attempt to choose at all
Here have you seen a mighty king
He's a good fellow, I can tell you that;
'Twixt me and one Baptista's daughter here:
Courage, my masters! honour now or never!
The routed fly: so thy grand captain Antony
Came this from Hamlet to her?
Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent; or,
I'll provide you a chain; and I'll do what I can to
But now I worship a celestial sun.
A good riddance.
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be
That the mad Brutus ended: he alone
Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
Had I brought hither a corrupted mind,
That solder'st close impossibilities,
No, Antony;
'Tis certain, then, for Cyprus.
with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits
after my degree, but fellow. Why, every thing
Good morrow, Ned.
He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd;
To-night I'll mourn with Hero.
Enter CORIOLANUS in a gown of humility, with MENENIUS
Marry, sir, half a day's journey: and I'll tell
bloody kind,
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
The wood began to move.
And well deserving? yet I know her for
No;
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
For certain she is dead, and by strange manner.
Enter Hostess
Then we are rid of Licio.
Nor read the secrets in't.
That shall have cause to curse the Dauphin's scorn.
service, let us talk in good earnest: is it
Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it
Got's will, and his passion of my heart! I had as
We are like to have the overthrow again.
The people are the city.
I thought I should have seen some Hercules,
A most royal one; the centurions and their charges,
Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
Are their males' subjects and at their controls:
Provided that, when he's removed, your highness
Enter LEPIDUS, MECAENAS, and AGRIPPA
of her first affection: his unjust unkindness, that
There is a play to-night before the king;
Who do you speak to, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
Indeed, sir, she was the sweet marjoram of the
corporal, be patient here. How now, mine host Pistol!
He's not confirm'd; we may deny him yet.
not be allowed in Vienna.
Upon the next occasion that we meet,
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
If not at court,
'Twixt hour and hour?
Peto; so did you, Bardolph: you are lions too, you
This late dissension grown betwixt the peers
But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.
That dims the honour of this warlike isle!
He is elder.
Of what kind should this cock come of?
The princely blood flows in his cheek, he sweats,
The ground is bloody; search about the churchyard:
Was never so emboss'd.
Lord Stafford's death.
By thy revolt, O husband, shall be thought
One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads;
addition in French, Notre trescher fils Henri, Roi
therein the heaping friendships. Of that fatal
Richard of York! how fares our loving brother?
In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
That ever Hector and Achilles meet;
O the good gods!
My bosom likes not, nor my brows! Mamillius,
A man may weep upon his wedding-day.
To VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  and c
Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i' the ground.
That he is not only plagued for her sin,
A goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a
manner of your garments well.
Exeunt
This matter of marrying his king's daughter, wherein
A nobleness in record: but I will be
As those which sell would give: but you well know,
Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the
untuneable.
not tell you on compulsion. Give you a reason on
Sweet, now, silence!
How now, gentleman! how is't with you?
I am bound to you.
And break my utterance, even in the time
honourable gentleman. Good Servilius, will you
swear by your beards that I am a knave.
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced
Why then, 'tis good to be a post.
For so I know he is, they know he is,
a man; and what a thing should I have been when I
resemble you in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian,
'Peace, tawny slave, half me and half thy dam!
His name, I pray you.
A coward, a most devout coward, religious in it.
flourishes, and a poor maid is undone.
To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.
Do you know them?
Due but to one and crowned with one crest.
Though he had bit me, should have stood that night
And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his
And made the forest tremble when they roar'd.
angry with you, if the time were convenient.
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
Give me my veil: come, throw it o'er my face.
For such disguise as haply shall become
And may not young men die, as well as old?
his meat without grudging: and how you may be
Of neither, girl:
How much unlike art thou Mark Antony!
Hard, hard. O filthy traitor!
Make not, sir,
If that thou best a devil, I cannot kill thee.
If I have used myself unmannerly;
This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke
No; dark shall be my light and night my day;
Remain a pinch'd thing; yea, a very trick
Young prince of Tyre, you have at large received
Where stain'd nobility lies trodden on,
Brooks no division: it will be thought
He says thou told'st him that his wife was false:
sorrows I might be some allay, or I o'erween to
Yes, yes, Sir Thomas,
These two Antipholuses, these two so like,
ANTIPHOLUS
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care,
have served you thus?
'Tis won as towns with fire, so won, so lost.
shall I search the market?
For fear, I promise you, if I look pale.
teach her to know my meaning: for maids, well
'Faith, half asleep.
Fulfil your pleasure. Live a thousand years,
They are reformed, civil, full of good
Good news, good news; the ladies have prevail'd,
again; and after it again; and over and over he
Shall sun that morrow see!
Than thou of them. Come all to ruin; let
The opening of his mouth; but suddenly,
Go, get you to your house; be gone, away!
This way the coverlet, another way the sheets:
Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade,
will myself have Anne Page.
And proved the subject of my own soul's curse,
Mayst smile at this: thou shalt not choose but go:
If for I want that glib and oily art,
his head in the view of Angelo? I may make my case
But let that go.
office between you.
For I do know Fluellen valiant
There to remain till the king's further pleasure
SCENE VI. London. Cannon Street.
Exit
Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,
There was excellent command,--to charge in with our
Did you e'er meet?
Good duke, receive thy daughter
A poor physician's daughter, thou dislikest
What, ho! apothecary!
Honour, high honour and renown,
The business she hath broached in the state
Wounds like a leaden sword.
invisible within the circumference.
From Ampthill where the princess lay; to which
Pray God he do! he'll never know himself else.
Yet speaks and peradventure may recover.
I myself fight not once in forty year.
will you vouchsafe me a word?
Into a thousand oaths; and all those oaths
Free speech and fearless I to thee allow.
Marcus, my brother! 'tis sad Titus calls.
Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of:
In our not-fearing Britain than have tidings
whore; a good quarrel to draw emulous factions
An oath of mickle might; and fury shall abate.
to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet. So
And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock.
Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
Re-enter CHARMIAN and Messenger
Ha, ha! are you honest?
That no man shall have private conference,
Upon their ancient malice will forget
Peace! who comes here?
Enacted wonders with his sword and lance:
Most welcome home!
Calls not your counsels, but our natural goodness
Well urged, my Lord of Warwick: or sweet prince,
That can make vile things precious. Come,
Upon the spot of this enforced cause,--
And Smith the weaver,--
Hath puddled his clear spirit: and in such cases
And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing,
Prepare the body then, and follow us.
He shall not live; look, with a spot I damn him.
As like Hermione as is her picture,
Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept;
him to his country for justice: grant it me, O
As I am clear from treason to my sovereign:
In giving him his right.
Hold up before him?
Thy son by this hath married. Wonder not,
And there is nothing left remarkable
I did not see you since you sent me hence,
No; if without more words you will get you hence.
If once it be neglected, ten to one
with the gallows and what with poverty, I am
Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
Accursed and unquiet wrangling days,
Here will I stand till Caesar pass along,
He means, my lord, that we are too remiss;
And with dishonour laid me on the ground;
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
To burn the errors that these princes hold
Which shows that beauty hath his power and will,
Thou hast a grim appearance, and thy face
Heralds, from off our towers we might behold,
Tell him he must awake, and that quickly too.
Consent to marry with Demetrius,
Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola.
True, madam, none at all: what call you this?
Die, die, Lavinia, and thy shame with thee;
here much Orlando!
He is welcome hither.
who, for aught I know,
I'll order take my mother shall not hear.
Why should I then be false, since it is true
Here's more news.
His hour of speech a minute; he, my lady,
My wedded lord, I ne'er shall see again,
smell so strongly as thou speakest of: I will
Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
There's no more faith in thee than in a stewed
I, sir, am Dromio; pray, let me stay.
and Barnardine. Here is in our prison a common
No further halting: satisfy me home
To the oath of loyalty; this object, which
Poor house, that keep'st thyself!
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
I'll not serve him; he's not valiant.
Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,
Grant us your loves.
soul dares not present itself: she is too bright to
And built so shelving that one cannot climb it
Unseparable, shall within this hour,
Whilst such a worthy leader, wanting aid,
Enter a Servant
Take away his weapon. Fellow, thank God, and the
For shame, thou helding of a devilish spirit,
Go, wind, to wind, there turn and change together.
Your faults as they are named. Use well our father:
Here are letters for you.
That knit your sinews to the strength of mine.
words to it: and then let her consider.
and children are even now to be afresh lamented.
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
I do it not in evil disposition,
Told the most piteous tale of Lear and him
Apprehend
hide him. O, how have you deceived me! Look, here
The gates of Milan, and, i' the dead of darkness,
Let gallows gape for dog; let man go free
Henry the Eighth, life, honour, name and all
emulation, nor the musician's, which is fantastical,
And it is nothing, nothing in the world;
Against the grace and person of my master,
But one that scorn to live in this disguise,
Those that will follow Cassius, go with him;
Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
damned for killing him, from which no warrant can defend us.
And with the southern clouds contend in tears,
When he was personal in the Irish war.
nay, an thou canst not smile as the wind sits,
O gracious emperor! O gentle Aaron!
The nearer bloody.
Either your unparagoned mistress is dead, or she's
Tut, I am strong-framed, he cannot prevail with me,
The king with mighty and quick-raised power
mine only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vincentio.
To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
Stay: whence are you?
The gentry to this business. He creates
Considers she my possessions?
Be it a lordship, thou shalt have it for that word.
Against our nuptial and confer with you
Not for that neither: here's the pang that pinches:
Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle,
But, with an angry wafture of your hand,
the beds of eels as my giving out her beauty stir up
Cast your election on him.
to thank me.' that's as much as to say, Any pains
Which men are best inclined.
Awake, and think our wrongs in Richard's bosom
us, ha, ha?
In all his own desires; nay, let him choose
Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
Her vine, the merry cheerer of the heart,
Shall I try friends: you shall perceive how you
To let these hands obey my blood,
prize, and have it; yea, and can show it you here in
ACT III
If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
skin that was killed for the Prodigal; he that came
And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
When my dimensions are as well compact,
I know you could not lack, I am certain on't,
You have not sought her help, of whose soft grace
Quake in the present winter's state and wish
I shall accept them fairly; let the presents
maid! where's my cousin Cressid?
Exit
The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to
if you mean to save yourself from whipping, leap me
Strange lingering poisons: I do know her spirit,
What is more cordial. Nay, I prethee, take it;
Enter Senators on the walls
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
By Jove, 'twould be my mind!
This bloody man, the care on't. I hope I dream;
Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,
I wait the sharpest blow, Antiochus.
Like enough you do.
But that I think his father loves him not
With his tinct gilded thee.
impatience: the gods reward your kindness!
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, QUEEN ELIZABETH,  CLARENCE, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, a Nurse with the young Prince, and Attendants
But what to me, my love? but what to me? A wife?
That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.
Liberty! Freedom! Tyranny is dead!
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
To change a master. O, my fortunes have
Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses,
speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
Hail, King of Scotland!
have been in love?
That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this:
Why, how now, long-tongued Warwick! dare you speak?
Of Messaline: Sebastian was my father;
With humble suit: no, rather let my head
Unless the fear of death doth make me dote,
Go tell the lords o' the city I am here:
With ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens,
And what he craves.
Prove you that any man with me conversed
In some of our best ports, and are at point
To make us wonder'd at in time to come.
O, how I long to have some chat with her!
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
Well, well, we'll leave you.
And on his more advice we pardon him.
Joshua, yourself; myself and this gallant gentleman,
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
To blench from this and to stand firm by honour:
And how does your content
Ruminat,--and so forth. Ah, good old Mantuan! I
I must then to the Grecians?
And he that is so yoked by a fool,
Away with her; go, bear her hence perforce.
The very tyranny and rage of his.
The odds for high and low's alike.
We charge you, on allegiance to ourself,
And bear his charging of wooing, whatsoe'er.
Any toys for your head,
Much more to be thus opposite with heaven,
Away, captains! let's get us from the walls;
You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this
She had transform'd me to a curtal dog and made
Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon.
SCENE III. London. The palace.
Therefore, out of thy long-experienced time,
Enter Second French Lord, with five or six other Soldiers in ambush
That no man enter till my tale be done.
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
My lord your son made me to think of this;
What, was he sad or merry?
My mind hath been as big as one of yours,
Return and tell him so: we know the worst.
A joyful mother of two goodly sons;
Follow, and do me service.
Is to come fairly off from the great debts
She dreamt to-night she saw my statua,
air; and, as I am a gentleman, betook myself to
Not by his breath that is more miserable.
Bid her alight,
civil and humane seeming, for the better compassing
That his own hand may strike his honour down
Be as a planetary plague, when Jove
And in that vow we have forsworn our books.
That never set a squadron in the field,
This night to be comptrollers.
distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, a
That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
No better than a sty? O, see, my women,
Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
His tears pure messengers sent from his heart,
To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
And from his bosom purge this black despair!
Therefore devise with me how we may fly,
Are spectacled to see him: your prattling nurse
Behold yond simpering dame,
That what they do delay, they not deny.
wide of his own respect.
Moved with compassion of my country's wreck,
They love me well; yet I have much to do
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Awake the snorting citizens with the bell,
To drive away the heavy thought of care?
when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons,
Err in report of us.
Of his ill-ta'en suspicion! Come, Camillo;
To hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid,
To parley or to fight; therefore prepare.
I derived liberty.
Yet bury him as a prince.
Madam, he's married to Octavia.
At our great bidding?
O, how mine eyes do loathe his visage now!
I do repent. Alas! I have show'd too much
And one that is as slanderous as Satan?
written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
He'll go along o'er the wide world with me;
Such as the day is when the sun is hid.
Enter HOTSPUR
If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would
my husband? 'The forked one,' quoth he, 'pluck't
Madam my interpreter, what says she?
would my master had Mistress Anne; or I would
this business.
To guard a title that was rich before,
He has betray'd your business, and given up,
Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel,
Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
Horns winded within
By the Lord, a buck-basket! rammed me in with foul
He looks like sooth. He says he loves my daughter:
Of all base passions, fear is most accursed.
That I did suit me all points like a man?
And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news.
He hath good usage and great liberty,
He loves you well that holds his life of you.
I bade her come. What, lamb! what, ladybird!
Not to deny this imposition;
And I am mean indeed, respecting you.
aboard, tender your persons to his presence,
Hail, gentle sir.
To say the truth, true and not true.
After all this, how did he bear himself?
Sir, he dined with her there, at the Porpentine.
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
And I mine. I remember, when I was in love I broke
I am merrier to die than thou art to live.
I'll see your grace: till then I'll follow her.
See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
Fill'd it with cursing cries and deep exclaims.
When he doth bid good morrow with such a spirit.
But, soft! I think she comes; and I'll prepare
Wept like two children in their deaths' sad stories.
Soft you; a word or two before you go.
As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
never come in mine own great chamber again else, of
Why, so didst thou: seem they religious?
Of hardiness is mother. Ho! who's here?
Call him hither to me, soldier.
Re-enter DEMETRIUS
You will be schoolmaster
Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will
Which first was mine own king: and here you sty me
And therefore 'tis called a sensible tale: and this
That are given for 'em. Friendship's full of dregs:
Herself and hers are highly bound to thee.
Or else worth all the rest; I see thee still,
The daughter of this lord?
Had loved you as we did.
Give me the boy: I am glad you did not nurse him:
How you stand minded in the weighty difference
What is thy name?
Then all too late I bring this fatal writ,
Swords! any thing, he cares not; an the devil come
O, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's arch-mock,
I do beseech your lordship, call her back.
As you must needs, for you all clapp'd your hands
Holla, within!
Doth more solicit me than your exclaims,
Why, sir, they were nothing but about Mistress Anne
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
The sacred honour of himself, his queen's,
Nym, thou hast spoke the right;
Your ladyship is ignorant what it is.
do his worst. For you, be that you are, long; and
I will not stir, nor wince, nor speak a word,
What begg'st thou, then? fond woman, let me go.
I will never mistrust my wife again till thou art
Enter the Boy
Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
Where noble fellows strike: war is no strife
He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
Suspicion all our lives shall be stuck full of eyes;
I know not, madam.
Enter MACBETH
O, coward that I am, to live so long,
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
Now, by my faith, lords, 'twas a glorious day:
And pride of their contention did take horse,
me one thing.
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS
Three things that women highly hold in hate.
Some to discover islands far away;
Should have been cherish'd by her child-like duty,
If his chief good and market of his time
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
O, could this kiss be printed in thy hand,
The princess dowager? how goes her business?
She's an adulteress.
Our love being yours, the error that love makes
Thou know'st I do: I call'd thee by thy name.
How is the man esteemed here in the city?
Exeunt
Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.
That which my father loses; no less than all:
But fare you well: perforce I must confess
That, as a duck for life that dives,
'Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream.
What error leads must err; O, then conclude
Should be deposed; and, being, that we detain
Till Cranmer, Cromwell, her two hands, and she,
That Christendom gives out.
She is alive; behold,
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  Why, Enobarbus,
In a bad quarrel slain a virtuous son.
Shall bear the olive freely.
Young lords, beware! and should the empress know
No, but there's a woman with maid by him. You have
Exeunt
Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all,--
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth,
Edmund had issue, Roger Earl of March;
How now, my hearts! did you never see the picture
A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man:
Then shall we hear their 'larum, and they ours.
And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder,
I will make my very house reel tonight: a letter for
Thy resolved patient, on thee still rely.
And train our intellects to vain delight.
I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause,
Commander of this hot malicious day:
demonstration of grief?
This way, my lord.
But first, to try her skill,
ha, ha! where? in Genoa?
Exeunt
A gentler heart did never sway in court;
O, while you live, tell truth and shame the devil!
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
take cold. Holla, ho! Curtis.
A title to Phoebe, to Luna, to the moon.
Your worship speaks like a most thankful and
Yet to be known shortens my made intent:
You know him well?
My fleet hath yielded to the foe; and yonder
Lord, Lord! methought, what pain it was to drown!
Come, sir, away.
The sinew and the forehand of our host,
I' the swathing-clothes the other, from their nursery
Give us the proudest prisoner of the Goths,
What would you with her, if that I be she?
If I be false, or swerve a hair from truth,
I'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee,
sack as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie,
Master, master! news, old news, and such news as
Like interrupted waters and o'erbear
And we that sell by gross, the Lord doth know,
Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir,
And in thy thought o'er-run my former time;
for a week escape a great deal of discoveries; but
Also stabs BASSIANUS, who dies
Is not this man jealous?
The tyrannous and bloody deed is done.
I cannot say 'tis pity
Which is it, girl, of these? Open them, boy.
Hence with it, and together with the dam
The king doth keep his revels here to-night:
I'll bring you comfort.
Ha! ha! false to me?
having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge
Yet of your royal presence I'll adventure
Does conquer him that did his master conquer
And, from some knowledge and assurance, offer
Will you sup there?
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
That, if this rule were true, he should be gracious.
My answer back. Brutus hath rived my heart:
You may be jogging whiles your boots are green;
sides, like a leather jerkin.
Thinking upon his services, took from you
the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes,
Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's;
You holy clergymen, is there no plot
That what we have we prize not to the worth
To make thee capable.
have you wearied your parishioners withal, and never
Pretend some alteration in good will?
And let him feed.
As from a conduit with three issuing spouts,
A' should not bear it so, a' should eat swords first:
More, I prithee, more.
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desire
Give him defence against the elements,
Who is to be buried in't?
The mirror of all courtesy;--
Nurse, give it me; my sword shall soon dispatch it.
Though thou the waters warp,
To sin in loving virtue: never could the strumpet,
The duke yet lives that Henry shall depose;
no better than picture-like to hang by the wall, if
At your pleasure, my good lord. Who's within
And he himself wander'd away alone,
Give ear to his motions, Master Slender: I will
handle, or use any sword, weapon, or dagger,
What exploit's in hand? where sups he to-night?
be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on; I will
Exit
I am satisfied.
Pretty and full of view; yea, haply, near
Stay, countrymen.
Thy warlike hand, thy mangled daughter here:
Your grandfather of famous memory, an't please your
Honest! ay, honest.
Nay, but hear me.
And be her sense but as a monument,
O, sir, let it not trouble you.
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
asked them once or twice what they had in their
From me he got it. if thy greatness will
Descend.
The gods forbid!
I cannot tell; expect they are busied about a
Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good
To do a murderous deed, to rob a man,
Why dost thou quiver, man?
herself swore th' other day, that Troilus, for
I did beget her, all the parish knows:
'Twere good, I think, your lordship sent him thither:
I'll cut thy throat.
Does buy and sell his honour as he pleases,
Enter PROSPERO and MIRANDA
to depute Cassio in Othello's place.
Yonder, sure, they are coming: let us now stay and see it.
I'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love,
That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,
Green indeed is the colour of lovers; but to have a
conduct of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard
Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets?
No, that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot
Demand me nothing: what you know, you know:
sweet breath as will utter a brace of words.
Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
Than in a polite distance.
he cannot, let the botcher mend him. Any thing
And the owner of it blest
Yea, look'st thou pale? let me see the writing.
Good people enter and lay hold on him.
Which harm within itself so heinous is
Good Murder, stab him; he's a murderer.
I have spoke; let him follow.
Yet, if this servile usage once offend.
To send in to your wife: my suit to her
Except I be by Silvia in the night,
And hither make, as great ambassadors
Thou kill'st thy mistress: but well and free,
give you good rest!'
Willingly;
Grandam, his nurse.
Break off thy song, and haste thee quick away:
'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a
Mock-vater! vat is dat?
Oft does them by the weakest minister:
Others would say 'Where, which is Bolingbroke?'
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
For well I know he was unnatural.
Myself, Belarius, that am Morgan call'd,
Exit
should be hanged, I cannot imagine.
O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an
Letting 'I dare not' wait upon 'I would,'
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Hath caused to belch up you; and on this island
Infect the sound pine and divert his grain
Because the girl should not survive her shame,
Thy comforts can do me no good at all;
you. O you gods, think I, what need we have any
To shepherds looking on their silly sheep,
Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part?
In short time after, he deposed the king;
And we are barren and bereft of friends;
The king is present: if it be known to him
Those enemies of Timon's and mine own
Or, by the affection that now guides me most,
I found that kindness in a father:
I come to talk of commonwealth affairs.
With tears as salt as sea, through thy unkindness:
Was ever woman in this humour won?
I will, my lord. There are two gentlemen
The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and
of me, he shall never make me such a fool. One woman
And mark how he continues.
Pawn their experience to their present pleasure,
A cur can lend three thousand ducats?' Or
Laying down her dagger
They would not have you to stir forth to-day.
therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
I dare do all that may become a man;
Away with him! and make a fire straight;
No great offence belongs to't, give your friend
Posthumus anchors upon Imogen,
that knows me to be in love; yet I am in love; but a
The commons here in Kent are up in arms:
The French are bravely in their battles set,
Of this most fair occasion, by the which
Why, that's well said.
New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night
Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?
promise-keeping.
we fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them.
Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.
Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted
Nay, hear me, Hubert, drive these men away,
Dear master, I can go no further. O, I die for food!
My lady's honour: what became of him
'Tis in reversion that I do possess;
bombard that would shed his liquor. If it
You, mistress,
Sorrow would solace and mine age would ease.
will prove those verses to be very unlearned,
Are in the poorest thing superfluous:
Here comes your man; now is your husband nigh.
You should not have the eminence of him,
not tainted! And why meet him at the gates, and
To seem despiteful and ungentle to you:
And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt:
[Reads]  'Thou comest to the lady Olivia, and in my
My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm:
Sans sans, I pray you.
Must be a faith that reason without miracle
And there's for twitting me with perjury.
No, I will speak.
Not better than he, by her own report.
For thou has lost thy princely privilege
Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.
Ay, but hearken, sir; though the chameleon Love can
Exeunt
Captives, to be advanced to this height?
Having seen but him and Caliban: foolish wench!
By yea and nay, sir, then I swore in jest.
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
Sir, yonder is your place.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
Which, when I know that boasting is an honour,
The practise of it lives in John the bastard,
She will be sick else. This day, no man think
Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind.
Enter CORIOLANUS, marching with drum and colours; commoners being with him
dealing. When I desire their leave that I might
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER and KENT
Let not your private discord keep away
To beg relief among Rome's enemies:
And that's great marvel, loving a light wench.
O traitor Diomed! turn thy false face, thou traitor,
What's that, my lord?
There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
Drink the free air.
I cry you mercy.
That being dead, like to the bullet's grazing,
You must not think I am so simple but I know the
Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He
I remember
Behold, I have a weapon;
Thou counterfeit'st most lively.
May one, that is a herald and a prince,
I would say the truth; but to accuse him so,
Thus might he pass indeed: yet he revives.
Ay, that he was.
Sir, his stoutness
My father and my uncle and myself
Avaunt! be gone! thou hast set me on the rack:
And, by device, let blockish Ajax draw
Would 'twere so!
And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance.
The foot above the head.
his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife.
The rebels have assay'd to win the Tower.
Not sad, my lord.
Whose icy current and compulsive course
Is my name Talbot? and am I your son?
To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes,
lads in Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, dyeing
inventoried, and every particle and utensil
Britain, lest the bargain should catch cold and
Before he'll buy again at such a rate:
draw sword again. Fair lady, do you think you have
Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
I shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness: but,
Truly, the more to blame he: we were Christians
And he our subjects' next degree in hope.
He shall be none;
For every one pursents three.
Pompey: you will turn good husband now, Pompey; you
Why, give it to my wife and fetch your money.
Do: I'll take the sacrament on't, how and which way you will.
Nay, you were better speak first, and when you were
But who comes here? the new-deliver'd Hastings?
To scan this thing no further; leave it to time:
Are you agreed?
And beat them backward home.
To sheathe his knife in us. He is attach'd;
A retreat is sounded
Dishonestly afflicted, but yet honest.
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
The rough and woeful music that we have,
To take the urgent hour. Come, sir, away.
'Tis done by me, and ends in 'Margaret.'
Whose face between her forks presages snow;
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Stand more for number than for accompt.
I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
Which holds him much to have.
Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfamed
You see this chase is hotly follow'd, friends.
As he had lost some province and a region
To death with mortal joy.
Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
She better would have fitted me or Clarence:
very strangler of their amity: Octavia is of a
From off the battlements of yonder tower;
The emperor and the Earl of Armagnac?
Is't not the tenor of his oracle,
And five years since there was some speech of marriage
His breeches cost him but a crown;
Exeunt
Confederates all thus to dishonour me.
shearers prove sheep, let me be unrolled and my name
a farmer's dog bark at a beggar?
Bid him encamp his soldiers where they are:
That bloody spoil: thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward!
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did!
For I have served him, and the man commands
And those that you'll procure from King Leontes--
Than savages could suffer: thou didst drink
And thus he would: Open your city gates;
Or all my fence shall fail.
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
Churl, upon thy eyes I throw
Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor
under the dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of
the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show
body as when he numbered thirty: he will be here
Either of condemnation or approof;
hundred years.
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell!
Yea, but I doubt they will be too hard for us.
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five
When?
My lord, we will not.
So many folds of favour. Sure, her offence
He takes false shadows for true substances.
Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
His guard have brought him thither.
He did discharge a horrible oath; whose tenor
I say, the proclamation!
Uncover, dogs, and lap.
And free access and favour as the rest:
How now! who's there?
The expressure that it bears, green let it be,
But be extirped from our provinces.
this is called the Quip Modest. If again 'it was
Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man
The god of soldiers,
Nay, you might keep that cheque for it till you met
The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
The woman's; flattering, hers; deceiving, hers;
Can you do it?
Enter PERICLES, with his train; LYSIMACHUS, HELICANUS, MARINA, and a Lady
and the clearstores toward the south north are as
Had he none else to make a stale but me?
You do not meet a man but frowns: our bloods
counsellor?
Of her confine: you should be ruled and led
Dash'd all to pieces. O, the cry did knock
By diligent discovery; but your haste
On that advantage, bought with such a shame,
For sleeping England long time have I watch'd;
As I am glad I have not, though not to have it
O, my good lord, I have been your tenant, and
The very last time we shall speak together:
What my tongue speaks my right drawn sword may prove.
This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it
What! I, that kill'd her husband and his father,
This is most strange,
Not with vain thanks, but with acceptance bounteous,
But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
That I should love a bright particular star
Because in choice he is so oft beguiled.
I urged you further; then you scratch'd your head,
To sinewy Ajax. I will not praise thy wisdom,
Your own handwriting would tell you what I think.
That, he awaking when the other do,
None durst come near for fear of sudden death.
Here's to thee, Menas!
I met a courier, one mine ancient friend;
Ha! sayest thou so?
And after that, he came, thus sad, away?
Coistrel that comes inquiring for his Tib;
To-day how many would have given their honours
This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and
Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
benevolence to make atonements and compremises
Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers
Yes, sir; but anger hath a privilege.
And, when he's sick to death, let not that part of nature
Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run,
Hear a foot fall: we now are near his cell.
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales,
From this day to the ending of the world,
I will discharge thee ere I go from thee:
To a Gentleman, who goes out
Here, my lord, a trifle of our love.
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
And in her most unmitigable rage,
Exeunt
Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him
What say'st thou?
Thou art sure of me:--go, make money:--I have told
Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains
Why, then, dame Margaret was ne'er thy joy.
In quantity equals not one of yours:
burnt sack to give me recourse to him and tell him
See how this river comes me cranking in,
That quicken even with blowing. O thou weed,
friendship falls off, brothers divide: in
And help to arm me. Leave me, I say.
Oft have I heard that grief softens the mind,
Were he more angry at it.
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
I' the field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be
Never mole, hare lip, nor scar,
An 'twould, you'ld carry half.
I know him not, but I have heard of him;
And that set together is noddy.
Know you any, count?
Arm, gentlemen; to arms! for I have thrown
About it; and write happy when thou hast done.
Where I left reading? Here it is, I think.
city's cost, the pissing-conduit run nothing but
Till I be brought to such a silly pass!
Forget the shames that you have stain'd me with,
As done: perseverance, dear my lord,
Sweet Oxford, and my loving Montague,
SCENE VIII. A plain near Actium.
And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies:
was a star danced, and under that was I born.
By heavenly synod was devised,
But this being so, he's just.
Enter FLAVIUS, MARULLUS, and certain Commoners
Hero was in this manner accused, in this very manner
Is that Camillo was an honest man;
keep below stairs?
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
Are you so formal, sir? well, I must wait,
And twenty more such names and men as these
unruly boys.
Were all the letters suns, I could not see one.
A flourish. Cornets. Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, bloody, with two or three Soldiers
When I should bid good morrow to my bride,
Ay, that I do; as well as I love any woman in
Who should attend on him? He makes up the file
And well deserved: not helping, death's my fee;
And die among our neighbours. Nay, behold 's:
Being criminal, in double violation
'Tis nine o'clock: our friends all stay for you.
Now, sir, 'thought is free:' I pray you, bring
That ebb and flow by the moon.
Yes, your renowned name: shall flight abuse it?
Thou antic death, which laugh'st us here to scorn,
can give you intelligence of an intended marriage.
Ay, but I hope, sir, that you love not here.
despised for the contrary. There's a medlar for
'Long all of Somerset and his delay.
Upon our kingdom: if, on the tenth day following,
religiously; and, as a certain father saith,--
me, Hal; God forgive thee for it! Before I knew
The preyful princess pierced and prick'd a pretty
Of the ranged empire fall! Here is my space.
The let-alone lies not in your good will.
For the rest of the Worthies?--
Exeunt
Where is your husband?
But that our loves and comforts should increase,
By Janus, I think no.
The mayor towards Guildhall hies him in all post:
But I'll endeavour deeds to match these words,
In awe of such a thing as I myself.
Your hostages I have, so have you mine;
A sin of perjury; she not denies it:
beasts most graze, birds best peck, and men sit down
If you were men, as men you are in show,
Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour,
Either accept the title thou usurp'st,
To lay so dangerous and dear a trust
conclusion, Pish! But, sir, be you ruled by me: I
Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!
And own no other function: each your doing,
O, how we joy to see your wit restored!
Hark, hark, you gods!
Shall remain!
And given me justice, justice, justice, justice!
have you whipt: so, for this time, Pompey, fare you well.
He wrought better that made the painter; and yet
I am weary of you.
I pant for life: some good I mean to do,
You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts
How has the ass broke the wall, that thou art out of the city?
And thank you too; for society, saith the text, is
make me afeard.
Cry 'God save Richard, England's royal king!'
Have made them mules, silenced their pleaders and
if we were villains by necessity; fools by
Nay, I'll fit you,
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse, Antipholus of Ephesus, Dromio of Syracuse and Dromio of Ephesus
Marian, I say! a stoup of wine!
It is the more like to be feigned: I pray you,
Lean famine, quartering steel, and climbing fire;
Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.
In summer, where the ways are fair enough:
As here by Caesar, and by you cut off,
All scatter'd in the bottom of the sea:
God be wi' you! I have done.
Which since I know they virtuously are placed,
To which I thus subscribe: Sir Valentine,
as once I was, and had but this fish painted,
tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.
EDGAR interposes
Most free in his reply.
Why have I blabb'd? who shall be true to us,
Enter LUCULLUS
received belief, in despite of the teeth of all
Clock striketh
What should I stay--
--with your sun-beamed eyes--
For you must be our housewife.
What faults he made before the last, I think
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
shall have a praise in present: we will not name
And never in my life, I do protest,
See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd
All the whole synod of them!
Good madam,--
That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE and ANNE PAGE
Or of devotion, to this holy shrine?
I will hear Brutus speak.
But you, my knight and guest;
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
'No woman shall succeed in Salique land:'
encountered: I hope it is not so low with him as
His word is more than the miraculous harp; he hath
Uncle, what shall we say to this in law?
The provost, he shall bear them, whose contents
The more it promises: as it ebbs, the seedsman
me. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs:
Changed to a worser shape thou canst not be.
would have nothing lie on my head: I cannot be thus satisfied.
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
And rather comfort his distressed plight
When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar.
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
And something over to remember me by:
Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
Perhaps thy childishness will move him more
I know not where; but wheresoever, I wish him well.
And speak between the change of man and boy
Shall quite strike off all service I have done,
tragedy: and so it is, truly; and very notably
Still it cried 'Sleep no more!' to all the house:
A natural and prompt alacrity
I am no traitor's uncle; and that word 'grace.'
Look up; speak.
ailest thou, man?
He lurch'd all swords of the garland. For this last,
yourself know how easy it is to be such an offender.
Not unlike,
To tell you what I was, since my conversion
I'll smoke your skin-coat, an I catch you right;
one man picked out of ten thousand.
Labeo and Flavius, set our battles on:
Hautboys. Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, and takes his state
Good morrow, all.
In moral fury half so peremptory,
Which will not prove a whip: as many coxcombs
Lord Junius Brutus sware for Lucrece' rape,
Not I, believe me: thus I'll visit her.
With Leonine, a murderer.
Has done this, and 'tis well; for worthy Wolsey,
I come to thee for charitable licence,
To die by thee were but to die in jest;
it is but heading and hanging.
Enter PAROLLES
But in mistaking.
To have her, or no. Go; say the woman told me so.
My reasonable part produces reason
Enter HORNER, the Armourer, and his man PETER, guarded
Many for many virtues excellent,
O, I will to him and pluck out his eyes!
This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
Methinks I should not thus be led along,
it should take joy
And so dies my revenge.
Should not become my wife and England's queen.
But, brother Antony,--
The king is merciful, if you revolt.
I learn, you take things ill which are not so,
We give thee up our guiltless blood to drink.
Still we went coupled and inseparable.
As Neptune's park, ribbed and paled in
ANTIPHOLUS
Say, is your tardy master now at hand?
than she is requested: this broken joint between
And in this mist at all adventures go.
Attend the queen and us; we shall have need
The king hath granted every article:
Therefore, my lords, omit no happy hour
But as a property. And now, Octavius,
Enter PAULINA, a Gentleman, and Attendants
Lord marshal, command our officers at arms
What is most right: mine honour was not yielded,
But not a sceptre to control the world:
Doth make your honour of his body's hue,
When you caught hurt in parting two that fought:
But Silvia is too fair, too true, too holy,
I lose your company: therefore forbear awhile.
ought him a thousand pound.
By south and east is to my part assign'd:
And felt them knowingly; the art o' the court
Promises boys hereafter. Sir, your queen
I'll send for you anon. Sir, I obey the mandate,
the bed she hath contaminated.
I understand you not: my griefs are double.
Gracious my lord,
Nay, sir, less than a pound shall serve me for
The Grecian youths are full of quality;
talking. Trinculo, the king and all our company
Who brought that letter from the cardinal?
That lately stole his daughter:
Our friends at least.
But this your minion, whom I know you love,
Our expectation that it would be thus
Here, noble lord: what is thy will with her?
Then he's a rogue, and a passy measures panyn: I
As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?'
An thou shouldst, thou 'ldst anger ladies.
I thank you, general;
Give the word, ho! and stand.
There's mischief in this man: canst thou say further?
them not handsomely.
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
caper; ha! higher: ha, ha! excellent!
him: and at my entreaty forbear his presence
You shall, Mark Antony.
To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,
that by the way; I praise heaven for it.
turn'd coward
the line: now, jerkin, you are like to lose your
He said the truth: and what said Surrey then?
heart of flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up
word. Well, set thee down, sorrow! for so they say
and all one.
Oh for my husband, for my dear lord Edward!
ape: he so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that
Exeunt
Pray, then, foresee me one.
Repeat their semblance often on the seas,
She twits me with my falsehood to my friend;
Sir, I would advise you to shift a shirt; the
Two of them did, the prince and Claudio; but the
Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
To fight with Glendower and his complices:
He finished indeed his mortal act
And give me swift transportance to those fields
Save ceremony, save general ceremony?
Nor conversant with ease and idleness,
That wait for execution in the morn.
Go on, and fetch our horses back again.
testiness, shall turn all into my commendations. My
SCENE III. Wales: a mountainous country with a cave.
Still thus, and thus; still worse!
you deny your griefs to your friend.
But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
Be near me, that I may remember you.
To CARDINAL WOLSEY
Saint George's half-cheek in a brooch.
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
name the several colours we do wear. Sight may
How now! Who's there?
We had had more sport.
And bid thy ceremony give thee cure!
Gentlemen, there's some of worth would come aboard;
O the heavens!
Thou art like one of those fellows that when he
How much thou wrong'st me, heaven be my judge.
Come, we'll inform them
Has a book in his pocket with red letters in't.
So honour cross it from the north to south,
What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him.
Then were it certain you were not so bad
To make it gracious. For my private part,
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
Well, somewhat we must do. Come, cousin, I'll
There's nothing can be minister'd to nature
Enter four or five of the Guard of MARK ANTONY
I will tell no tales.
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
What if it be a poison, which the friar
And wear my dagger with the braver grace,
And make a clear way to the gods.
ever know beloved?
Where they shall rest for ever. Trumpets, speak!
Ha!
They draw
To any shape of thy preferment such
Set on thy wife to observe: leave me, Iago:
Exeunt OLIVIA and MARIA
Spare your arithmetic: never count the turns;
In all these circumstances I'll instruct you:
Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance:
Just, you say well; so would I have said.
Hark! she speaks: I will set down what comes from
To the corruption of a blemished stock:
nothing. Cleopatra, catching but the least noise of
blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon
He is drowned in the brook: look but in, and you
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so
If my heart's dear love--
He must think us some band of strangers i' the
For him, I think not on him: for his thoughts,
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot;
And looked upon, I hope, with cheerful eyes.
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
Methinks he seems no bigger than his head:
Deny your love, so rich within his soul,
SCENE III. The French camp near Dover.
I have not slept.
My high-repented blames,
Pluck'd from my arms perforce and given away
washed off the next tide.
I have borne this business.
Come, go with me.
If money were as certain as your waiting,
It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart.
Than when I feel and see her no farther trust her;
Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but
Saucy controller of our private steps!
It toucheth us, as France invades our land,
We will talk no more of this matter.
not of him in the court. Let me speak with the
Nay, to thy mere confusion, thou shalt know
To the last article: my lord shall never rest;
have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your
Must, as a foreign recreant, be led
not yet: the roof of this court is too high to be
soldier keep his oath?
But to be safely thus.--Our fears in Banquo
Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
Even then will rush to knowledge. Go: fresh horses!
My royal choice.
Kneels
is a 'oman that altogether's acquaintance with
your bowl.
Many a time he danced thee on his knee,
Their course of love, the tidings of her death:
day is hot, and the weather, and the wars, and the
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank,
Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs, and baskets
Nor I.
after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich
Am bound to under-bear.
My lord, you shall o'er-rule my mind for once.
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
Broke be my sword, my arms torn and defaced,
Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.
And dotage terms so.
The greater scorns the lesser: not nature,
But not with such familiar instances,
May safely come to him, and be resolved
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
We are thy sovereign, Clifford, kneel again;
Why dost thou run so many mile about,
Noble Marcius!
No son of mine succeeding. If 't be so,
He hath commanded me to go to bed,
I found the effect of love in idleness:
The king and all the peers are here at hand.
Enter at one door, HORNER, the Armourer, and his  Neighbours, drinking to him so much that he is drunk;  and he enters with a drum before him and his staff  with a sand-bag fastened to it; and at the other  door PETER, his man, with a drum and sand-bag, and 'Prentices drinking to him
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
Dread lord, the commons send you word by me,
Softly, dear sir; good sir, softly. You ha' done me
To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound;
To DESDEMONA
Speak softly; yonder, as I think, he walks.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
thou to curse thus?
I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
I still win of you: for my sake wear this;
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
Graves only be men's works and death their gain!
Hath hurt me more than had he killed me dead:
What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one!
Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea;
With terrible numbers,
But vows to every purpose must not hold:
A woman I forswore; but I will prove,
Your provost knows the place where he abides
What trade, thou knave? thou naughty knave, what trade?
Amen!
But in plain shock and even play of battle,
And burn in many places; on the topmast,
We first put out to sea.
Ay: but, peace! let's hear 'em.
Come, come, let us thither: this may prove food to
What hands are here? ha! they pluck out mine eyes.
what's thyself?
And Dick the Butcher,--
have purchased as many diseases under her roof as come to--
But will you woo this wild-cat?
begged. I have your alms: adieu.
Those are pearls that were his eyes:
Now useless, boil'd within thy skull! There stand,
How near's the other army?
That face of his I do remember well;
His master thus.
But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces,
That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
To show Lord Timon that mean eyes have seen
She has a good face, speaks well, and has excellent
To one man's honour, this contagious sickness,
No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your
Here am I left to underprop his land,
sojourner we have; you'll lose nothing by custom.
Here were the servants of your adversary,
None, but to lose your eyes.
Wherein you range under this subtle king;
I do not doubt thy faith;
To undercrest your good addition
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture,
Good lords, although my will to give is living,
Than your particular demands will touch it:
mutinies in a man's bosom; it fills one full of
becomes him,--
Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight: I
To die upon the hand I love so well.
By indirections find directions out:
Of all your dear offences! Bear them hence.
He is a very serpent in my way;
those things you found about her, those secret
I pray thee, over-name them; and as thou namest
Ay, my good lord.
He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage,
My lord Bassanio and my gentle lady,
To be of worth and worthy estimation
Measures of wheat to Rome; this 'greed upon
'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce
Thy dearest quit thee.
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
You would say so, master, if your garments were thin.
Truly, Master Holofernes, the epithets are sweetly
Ah, woe is me for Gloucester, wretched man!
At last, with easy roads, he came to Leicester,
Which now came from him.
and so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the
His knell rung out, his judgment, he was stirr'd
I thought it was a fault, but knew it not;
How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child,
Is now due debt. To the grave!
but his lackey: 'tis a hooded valour; and when it
The bonny priser of the humorous duke?
Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,
'Tis meet so, daughter: but lest you do repent,
Good sir, why do you start; and seem to fear
And so it is: I wonder what it bodes.
A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
corrupted the youth of the realm in erecting a
Two Cliffords, as the father and the son,
DON
But what the repining enemy commends,
Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
His thread of life had not so soon decay'd:
Exit
Whiter than new snow on a raven's back.
I play the noble housewife with the time
Swearing that you withhold his levied host,
SCENE IV. The Shepherd's cottage.
Exeunt
They have said their prayers, and they stay for death.
If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.
broken coxcomb. When you take occasions to see leeks
Till Norfolk be repeal'd: repeal'd he shall be,
Besides, all French and France exclaims on thee,
Pity the dearth that I have pined in,
This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
Fie, daughter! when my old wife lived, upon
Not sleeping, to engross his idle body,
But little: I am arm'd and well prepared.
I will assume desert. Give me a key for this,
How! my issue!
my foe to sweat:
Pointing to the Attendant who carries off LEPIDUS
To FERDINAND
Must have a stop. O, I could prophesy,
drab, and uses the traitor Calchas' tent: I'll
Had answer'd him.
SCENE XI. Another part of the same.
The night has been unruly: where we lay,
What would you have?
He has kill'd me, mother:
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
Is at this day in Germany call'd Meisen.
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.
[To the Fool]  Why, how now, captain! what do you
he loves our house. Let me see some more. 'The
The pleasure of that madness. Let 't alone.
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
I rather do beseech you pardon me,
DON
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
My gracious lords, to add to your laments,
To have me filch it?
By prosperous voyages I often made
Enter two Clowns, with spades,  and c
Alarum. Drums and trumpets. Enter AGRIPPA and others
Ere a determinate resolution, he,
Come all to help him, and so stop the air
Know him in us, that here hold up his right.
Only for propagation of a dower
Therefore take heed how you impawn our person,
Stab them, or tear them on thy chariot-wheels;
And throw between them all the food thou hast,
That for your highness' good I ever labour'd
That are your prisoners,--
They set the same; and there it doth remain,
Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
And it shall please me well: for mine own part,
To Bourdeaux, warlike duke! to Bourdeaux, York!
As he hath spices of them all, not all,
He throws without distinction. Give me leave,
What I should think of this, I cannot tell:
I'll give you boot, I'll give you three for one.
And victory, with little loss, doth play
and rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from me
SCENE II: Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Woe, that too late repents,--
And threat the glory of my precious crown.
Exit
I prithee,
And talking of the Alps and Apennines,
And as for these whose ransom we have set,
You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so
Why ask you? hear you aught of her in yours?
And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
Spurr'd, gall'd and tired by jouncing Bolingbroke.
Madam, I was very late more near her than I think
Nature's own shape, of bud, bird, branch, or berry,
Let's follow him, and pervert the present wrath
The help of heaven we count the act of men.
Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony
I have spoke the truth.
Or, if I live, is it not very like,
Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead;
Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
Thank me for this more than for all the favours
More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
I am Cinna the poet, I am Cinna the poet.
The one as long as the other: 'tis pity of him.
You have as little honesty as honour,
Not only my success in Libya, sir,
I,' says she, 'that have so oft encountered him
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood.
Forbear it therefore; give your cause to heaven.
Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on,
And points at them for his.
For we have now no thought in us but France,
To separate the husband and the wife.
No occupation; all men idle, all;
Ever sprung; as sun and showers
So little of his great self.
The fairy land buys not the child of me.
first propose: his highness hath promised me to do
Of other lords and barons, knights and squires,
COUNTESS
To spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy
Gone to seek his dog; which tomorrow, by his
Where are these lads? where are these hearts?
Eye of newt and toe of frog,
That time,--O times!--
To signify thou camest to bite the world:
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  That year, indeed, he was
When others are more wicked: not being the worst
And so espoused to death, with blood he seal'd
out divers schedules of my beauty: it shall be
To the unsatisfied.
Then which way shall I find Revenge's cave?
bleeding in me. I speak not out of weak surmises,
I will not stay to-night for all the town;
When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh,
Behold, behold. where Madam Mitigation comes! I
linguist and the armipotent soldier.
Her suit is now to repossess those lands;
abbreviated ne. This is abhominable,--which he
Tut, I came not to hear this.
Exeunt from the walls
I'll take what winter from your lips, fair lady:
say me nay: pauca verba. Away! the gentles are at
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
For in Baptista's keep my treasure is:
I faintly broke with thee of Arthur's death;
The law I bear no malice for my death;
And thence from Athens turn away our eyes,
For amplest credence.
It is impossible that ever Rome
To the dead bodies of my queen and son:
Presence majestical would put him out,
But upon the fairest boughs,
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
Great Lord of Warwick, if we should recount
Be crown'd with plagues that thee alone obey!
At duty, more than I could frame employment,
I'll tell thee:
What shall I do to win my lord again?
your lordship.
And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary?
You did.
more French: I shall never move thee in French,
Accessible is none but Milford way.
am in love. I'll tell thee, Aliena, I cannot be out
But when contention and occasion meet,
BISHOP
To the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,--
A young man married is a man that's marr'd:
The king and prince at prayers! let's assist them,
To the most of men this is a Caliban
But miserable most, to love unloved?
On flickering Phoebus' front,--
Enter a Messenger
after gift; smelling so sweetly, all musk, and so
With haughty arms this hateful name in us.
Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine,
Perhaps they will but please themselves upon her,
How far that little candle throws his beams!
The stealth of our most mutual entertainment
I like this well; he will return again.
As if they came from several citizens,
High commendation, true applause and love,
do you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade?
Save these men's looks; who do, methinks, find out
SCENE I. The moated grange at ST. LUKE's.
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
Without the show of both; fat Falstaff
Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven.
Religious canons, civil laws are cruel;
the world I fill up a place, which may be better
Cursed be the heart that had the heart to do it!
I will, my lord.
Which with pain purchased doth inherit pain:
Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies,
So may he rest; his faults lie gently on him!
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
nothing but secrecy. Let my sheep go: come, good
Fear not, my lord, your servant shall do so.
he dead, bully stale? is he dead?
But this I know, they have demean'd themselves
Unto my father and my uncle Marcus,
Shall for my legacy be sanctified
And all my children?
What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
And many Jasons come in quest of her.
Now are we well resolved; and, by God's help,
Would I not leap upright.
Nay, good Sir Toby.
witness of this: therefore I beseech your majesty,
Some wine, within there, and our viands! Fortune knows
merited, either in my mind or, in my means, meed,
Whose absence is no less material to me
treacherous device and never leave thee till he
deliver you more. How goes it now, sir? this news
My lord,--
Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
Do cream and mantle like a standing pond,
Verona, for a while I take my leave,
As I had rather hide me from my greatness,
Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds,
Yea, like the stag, when snow the pasture sheets,
We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give
And suffer not dishonour to approach
To mend it, or be rid on't.
Will not the mayor then and his brethren come?
Re-enter MALVOLIO
That have their first conception by mis-dread,
M,--Malvolio; M,--why, that begins my name.
Time was, I did him a desired office,
Should presently extirpate me and mine
With Henry's death the English circle ends;
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
villages, nothing taken but paid for, none of the
Come, trouble not yourself. Good Master Fenton,
SCENE II. The palace.
Enter ANGELO
education: you have trained me like a peasant,
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
To make the world to laugh at me.
And fence not Athens! Matrons, turn incontinent!
Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
To any tongue, speak it of what it will.
And so I am: then crushing penury
flaming a praise for a good complexion. I had as
Speak, speak. Quite dumb?
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius.
with us to the king.
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
our absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge.
What then!
Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
Enter CLEOPATRA, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
The king by this is set him down to sleep.
Madam, we'll play at bowls.
Exit with DORCAS and MOPSA
Bardolph, am I not fallen away vilely since this last
Bid him make haste and meet me at the North-gate.
Should be the father to so blest a son,
Let me march on, and not offend your grace.
Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer.
myself, to be in a due resolution.
And by whose letters I'll dispose myself.
That, were my state far worser than it is,
God keep the prince from all the pack of you!
Descend unto the daughter. Gracious lord,
Nor, as we are, we say we will not shun it:
Which is the bell: so sighs and tears and groans
To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary.
Can buy this unprized precious maid of me.
If thou stand excommunicate and cursed?
O fair Katharine, if you will love me soundly with
Who was sole heir to the usurper Capet,
I say the earth did shake when I was born.
[Aside]  Some treason, masters: yet stand close.
Who is here? What, are you packing, sirrah?
Madest quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
Upon their spotted souls for this offence!
I will not do them wrong; I rather choose
Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
Away toward Bury, to the Dauphin there!
O yes, an 'twere a cloud in autumn.
Hath hither brought.
Have never wing'd from view o' the nest, nor know not
O gentle Aaron, we are all undone!
Nay, that you shall not: since you have begun,
Creatures that by a rule in nature teach
Her father hath commanded her to slip
Witness the fortune he hath had in France.
What chance is this that suddenly hath cross'd us?
'Anon he finds him
The fresh and yet unbruised Greeks do pitch
Over whom, in time to come, I hope to reign;
The story of your loves discovered:
Well said; come on.
That he that breaks a stick of Gloucester's grove
Nor well, unless in mind: his letter there
Till he hath found a time to pay us home:
That I am to pronounce Augustus Caesar--
Dissembling villain, thou speak'st false in both.
This shows you are above,
Would it were mortal poison, for thy sake!
'Tis my undoing: love and meekness, lord,
I will not yield,
to-night: I shall beseech your lordship to remain
Lo, by thy side where Rape and Murder stands;
And there the strawy Greeks, ripe for his edge,
If heaven be pleased that you must use me ill,
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
But like a comet I was wonder'd at;
you no song, forester, for this purpose?
Deadly divorce step between me and you!
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
demure travel of regard, telling them I know my
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
If that the youth of my new interest here
To work mine end upon their senses that
Eating the bitter bread of banishment;
[Aside]  I know them all, though they suppose me mad,
To see a reverend Syracusian merchant,
Exeunt
here's a night pities neither wise man nor fool.
To-day shalt thou behold a subject die
With his disease of all-shunn'd poverty,
Is every flatterer's spirit. Who can call him
Mark'd for the gallows, lay your weapons down;
Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late
SCENE I. London. A street.
Such water-colours to impaint his cause;
I was about to say--enjoy your--But
Though he does bear some signs of me, yet you
That, like a testy babe, will scratch the nurse
Two Sentinels on guard.
Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.
Would I had a rod in my mouth, that I might answer
O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
After your way his tale pronounced shall bury
One that made means to come by what he hath,
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors:
To invite the Trojan lords after the combat
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum
And look on death itself! up, up, and see
To gnaw their garners. Worshipful mutiners,
Dead, dead? A tomb
Were the graced person of our Banquo present;
Then love me, Rosalind.
With thy unworthiness, thou diest: away!
Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.
Now I fear thee not:
Excellent well.